6/22/26, 7:39 PM Chantix (varenicline) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
This site is intended for healthcare professionals

varenicline (Rx)
Brand and Other Names: Chantix
Classes: Smoking Cessation Aids

Dosing & Uses

ADULT
Dosage Forms & Strengths

tablet

0.5mg

1mg

Smoking Cessation

Set a date to stop smoking and begin varenicline 1 week before this date

Alternatively, the patient can begin varenicline and then quit smoking between days 8
and 35 of treatment

Also see Administration

Quit smoking date regimen

Initiate regimen 1 week before quit smoking date

Days 1-3: 0.5 mg PO qDay

Days 4-7: 0.5 mg PO BID

Day 8 to end of treatment: 1 mg PO BID

If quitting is successful after 12 weeks, continue another 12 weeks at 1 mg q12hr

Gradual approach to quitting

For patients who are sure that they are not able or willing to quit abruptly, consider
a gradual approach to quitting smoking with varenicline

Begin dosing and reduce smoking by 50% from baseline within the first 4 weeks,
by an additional 50% in the next 4 weeks, and continue reducing with the goal of

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/chantix-varenicline-343212 1/9



6/22/26, 7:39 PM Chantix (varenicline) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

reaching complete abstinence by 12 weeks

Continue varenicline for an additional 12 weeks, for a total of 24 weeks of
treatment

Encourage patients to attempt quitting sooner if they feel ready

Dosage Modifications

Consider a temporary or permanent dose reduction in patients who cannot tolerate the
adverse effects

Renal impairment

Mild-to-moderate (CrCl ≥30 mL/min): No dosage adjustment required

Severe (CrCl <30 mL/min): 0.5 mg PO qDay initially; may increase to 0.5 mg PO
q12hr

ESRD on hemodialysis: Not to exceed 0.5 mg PO qDay

PEDIATRIC
<18 years: Safety and efficacy not established

Interactions

Interaction Checker

Enter a drug name to check for any interactions. Type a drug, OTC, or herbal  and varenicline
No Interactions Found
Interactions Found
Contraindicated

Serious

Significant - Monitor Closely

Minor

All Interactions Sort By: Severity
Contraindicated (0)

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/chantix-varenicline-343212 2/9



6/22/26, 7:39 PM Chantix (varenicline) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Serious (2)

tafenoquine
tafenoquine will increase the level or effect of varenicline by Other (see comment).
Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Tafenoquine inhibits organic cation transporter-2
(OCT2) and multidrug and toxin extrusion (MATE) transporters in vitro. Avoid
coadministration with OCT2 or MATE substrates. If coadministration cannot be
avoided, monitor for substrate-related toxicities and consider dosage reduction if
needed based on product labeling of the coadministered drug.

trilaciclib
trilaciclib will decrease the level or effect of varenicline by Other (see comment).
Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Avoid coadministration of trilaciclib (OCT2, MATE1,
and MATE-2K inhibitor) with substrates where minimal increased concentration in
kidney or blood may lead to serious or life-threatening toxicities.

Monitor Closely (12)

benzgalantamine
benzgalantamine and varenicline both increase cholinergic effects/transmission.
Use Caution/Monitor.

dichlorphenamide
dichlorphenamide and varenicline both decrease serum potassium. Use
Caution/Monitor.

erdafitinib
erdafitinib increases levels of varenicline by increasing renal clearance. Modify
Therapy/Monitor Closely. Consider alternatives that are not OCT2 substrates or
consider reducing the dose of OCT2 substrates based on tolerability.

ethanol
varenicline increases effects of ethanol by unspecified interaction mechanism.
Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Coadministration have resulted in some patients
experiencing increased intoxicating effects of alcohol, sometimes associated with
aggressive behavior and/or amnesia. Advise patients to reduce the amount of
alcohol they consume while taking varenicline until they know whether it affects
their tolerance for alcohol.

famotidine
famotidine will increase the level or effect of varenicline by decreasing renal
clearance. Use Caution/Monitor.

galantamine
galantamine and varenicline both increase cholinergic effects/transmission. Use
Caution/Monitor.

givinostat
givinostat will increase the level or effect of varenicline by Other (see comment).
Use Caution/Monitor. Givinostat is a weak OAT2 inhibitor. Closely monitor if

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/chantix-varenicline-343212 3/9



6/22/26, 7:39 PM Chantix (varenicline) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

coadministered with orally administered OCT2 sensitive substrates for which a
small change in substrate plasma concentration may lead to serious toxicities.

ibuprofen/famotidine
ibuprofen/famotidine will increase the level or effect of varenicline by decreasing
renal clearance. Use Caution/Monitor.

nicotine inhaled
varenicline increases toxicity of nicotine inhaled by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: Varenicline is a partial agonist at the nicotinic Ach
receptor; concomitant use with nicotine replacement therapy may increase adverse
effects.

nicotine intranasal
varenicline increases toxicity of nicotine intranasal by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: Varenicline is a partial agonist at the nicotinic Ach
receptor; concomitant use with nicotine replacement therapy may increase adverse
effects.

nizatidine
nizatidine will increase the level or effect of varenicline by decreasing renal
clearance. Use Caution/Monitor.

tobramycin inhaled
tobramycin inhaled and varenicline both increase nephrotoxicity and/or ototoxicity.
Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Avoid concurrent or sequential use to decrease
risk for ototoxicity

Minor (2)

cimetidine
cimetidine increases levels of varenicline by decreasing renal clearance.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

isavuconazonium sulfate
isavuconazonium sulfate will increase the level or effect of varenicline by Other (see
comment). Minor/Significance Unknown. Isavuconazonium sulfate, an OCT2
inhibitor, may increase the effects or levels of OCT2 substrates.

Adverse Effects

>10%

Nausea (15-40%; dose related)

Abnormal dreams

Headache

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/chantix-varenicline-343212 4/9



6/22/26, 7:39 PM Chantix (varenicline) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Insomnia

1-10%

Appetite changes

Chest pain

Constipation

Dry mouth

Dyspepsia

Dyspnea

Flatulence

Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD)

Fatigue or lethargy

Pruritus

Rash

Somnolence

Rhinorrhea

Vomiting

Upper respiratory tract disorder

Frequency Not Defined (selected)

Abnormal liver function tests

Anemia

Anxiety

Arrhythmia

Arthralgia

Depression

Diarrhea

Dizziness

Epistaxis

Hypertension

Myocardial infarction (MI)

Polyuria

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/chantix-varenicline-343212 5/9



6/22/26, 7:39 PM Chantix (varenicline) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Respiratory disorder

Postmarketing Reports

Depression, mania, psychosis, hallucinations, paranoia, delusions, homicidal ideation,
aggression, hostility, anxiety, and panic, as well as suicidal ideation, suicide attempt, and
completed suicide, somnambulism

Serious skin reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome

Cerebrovascular accident

Seizures

MI

Cardiovascular: During nontreatment follow-up to 52 weeks, adjudicated events
comparing patients with stable cardiovascular disease to premarket studies included
need for coronary revascularization (2.0% vs 0.6%), hospitalization for angina pectoris
(1.7% vs 1.1%), and new diagnosis of peripheral vascular disease (PVD) or admission for
PVD procedure (1.4% vs 0.6%)

Irritability

Agitation

Somnambulism

Warnings

Contraindications

Documented hypersensitivity or skin reactions to drug or components of formulation

Nonsmokers

Cautions

May cause nausea; reduce dose if nausea occurs

Somnambulism reported, including cases describing harmful behavior to self, others, or
property; instruct patients to discontinue varenicline and notify their healthcare
professional

Seizures reported; some patients had no history of seizures, whereas others had a
history of seizure disorder that was remote or well-controlled; in most cases, the seizure
occurred within the first month of therapy; use with caution in patients with history of
seizures or with other factors that might lower seizure threshold

May cause CNS depression; use caution when performing tasks requiring mental
alertness, such as, operating heavy machinery or driving

Hypersensitivity reactions reported, including angioedema

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/chantix-varenicline-343212 6/9



6/22/26, 7:39 PM Chantix (varenicline) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Rare but serious skin reactions reported, including Stevens-Johnson Syndrome and
erythema multiforme

Neuropsychiatric adverse effects

Serious neuropsychiatric adverse events reported; these postmarketing reports
include changes in mood (including depression and mania), psychosis,
hallucinations, paranoia, delusions, homicidal ideation, aggression, hostility,
agitation, anxiety, and panic, as well as suicidal ideation, suicide attempt, and
completed suicide

Some patients who stopped smoking may have been experiencing symptoms of
nicotine withdrawal, including depressed mood

Depression, rarely including suicidal ideation, has been reported in smokers
undergoing a smoking cessation attempt without medication; however, some of
these adverse events occurred in patients taking varenicline who continued to
smoke

Neuropsychiatric adverse events occurred in patients without and with pre-existing
psychiatric disease; some patients experienced worsening of their psychiatric
illnesses

Some neuropsychiatric adverse events, including unusual and sometimes
aggressive behavior directed to oneself or others, may have been worsened by
concomitant use of alcohol

Advise patients and caregivers that the patient should stop taking varenicline and
contact a healthcare provider immediately if agitation, depressed mood, or changes
in behavior or thinking that are not typical are observed, or if the patient develops
suicidal ideation or suicidal behavior

Alcohol interaction

Patients should reduce amount alcohol they consume when initiating therapy until
they know whether it increases intoxicating effects

Postmarketing reports of patients experiencing increased intoxicating effects of
alcohol while taking varenicline; some cases described unusual and sometimes
aggressive behavior, and were often accompanied by amnesia for the events

Cardiovascular risk

May increase risk of cardiovascular events in patients with underlying
cardiovascular disease; randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of 700
patients treated with varenicline for smoking cessation found increases in risk of
nonfatal MI, need for revascularization, angina pectoris, and peripheral vascular
disease

In FDA meta-analysis, varenicline (compared with placebo) showed nonsignificant
increase in risk for major adverse cardiovascular events (ie, combined outcome of
cardiovascular-related death, nonfatal heart attack, and nonfatal stroke); these
events were uncommon in both groups

Pregnancy & Lactation

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/chantix-varenicline-343212 7/9



6/22/26, 7:39 PM Chantix (varenicline) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Pregnancy

Available data have not suggested increased risk for major birth defects following
exposure to varenicline in pregnancy, compared with women who smoke; smoking
during pregnancy causes increased risks of orofacial clefts, premature rupture of
membranes, placenta previa, placental abruption, ectopic pregnancy, fetal growth
restriction and low birth weight, stillbirth, preterm delivery and shortened gestation,
neonatal death, sudden infant death syndrome and reduction of lung function in infants;
it is not known whether quitting smoking with varenicline during pregnancy reduces
these risks

Lactation

Because there are no data on presence of varenicline in human milk and effects on
breastfed infant, breastfeeding women should monitor their infant for seizures and
excessive vomiting, which are adverse reactions that have occurred in adults that may be
clinically relevant in breastfeeding infants

Pregnancy Categories

A: Generally acceptable. Controlled studies in pregnant women show no evidence of
fetal risk.

B: May be acceptable. Either animal studies show no risk but human studies not available
or animal studies showed minor risks and human studies done and showed no risk.

C: Use with caution if benefits outweigh risks. Animal studies show risk and human
studies not available or neither animal nor human studies done.

D: Use in LIFE-THREATENING emergencies when no safer drug available. Positive
evidence of human fetal risk.

X: Do not use in pregnancy. Risks involved outweigh potential benefits. Safer alternatives
exist.

NA: Information not available.

Pharmacology

Mechanism of Action

Agonist at nicotinic receptors; acts on mesolimbic dopamine system associated with
nicotine addiction, where it prevents nicotine stimulation; stimulates nicotine activity but
to lesser degree than nicotine does

Absorption

Completely absorbed

Bioavailability: High

Peak plasma time: 3-4 hr

Distribution

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/chantix-varenicline-343212 8/9



6/22/26, 7:39 PM Chantix (varenicline) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Protein bound: <20%

Metabolism

Minimally metabolized

Elimination

Excretion: Urine (92%)

Half-life: 24 hr

Excretion: Urine (92%)

Administration

Oral Administration

Take dose after eating with full glass of water

Set date to stop smoking, and start varenicline 1 week before that date; alternatively, the
patient can begin varenicline dosing and then quit smoking between days 8 and 35 of
treatment

Patients who are motivated to quit, and who did not succeed in stopping smoking during
prior varenicline therapy for reasons other than intolerability due to adverse events or
who relapsed after treatment, should be encouraged to make another attempt with
varenicline once factors contributing to the failed attempt have been identified and
addressed

Formulary

Adding plans allows you to compare formulary status to other drugs in the same class.

Formulary information is available for health plans only in the United States.

Medscape prescription drug monographs are based on FDA-approved labeling information, unless otherwise noted,
combined with additional data derived from primary medical literature.

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/chantix-varenicline-343212 9/9