6/22/26, 8:09 PM Cipro, Cipro XR (ciprofloxacin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
This site is intended for healthcare professionals

ciprofloxacin (Rx)
Brand and Other Names: Cipro, Cipro XR, ProQuin XR
Classes: Fluoroquinolones

Dosing & Uses

ADULT
Dosage Forms & Strengths

infusion solution

200mg/100mL

200mg/20mL

400mg/40mL

400mg/200mL

oral suspension

250mg/5mL

500mg/5mL

tablet

100mg

250mg

500mg

750mg

tablet, extended release

500mg

1000mg

Acute Sinusitis

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/cipro-xr-ciprofloxacin-342530 1/55



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Cipro, Cipro XR (ciprofloxacin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Mild/moderate: 500 mg PO q12hr or 400 mg IV q12hr for 10 days

Limitations-of-use: Reserve fluoroquinolones for patients who do not have other
available treatment options for acute sinusitis

Bone & Joint Infections

Mild/moderate: 500 mg PO q12hr or 400 mg IV q12hr for ≥4-6 weeks

Severe/complicated: 750 mg PO q12hr or 400 mg IV q8hr for ≥4-6 weeks

Chronic Bacterial Prostatitis

Indicated for chronic bacterial prostatitis caused by Escherichia coli or Proteus mirabilis

Mild/moderate: 500 mg PO q12hr or 400 mg IV q12hr for 28 days

Infectious Diarrhea

Mild/moderate/severe: 500 mg PO q12hr for 5-7 days

Empirical Therapy in Febrile Neutropenic Patients

Severe: 400 mg IV q8hr for 7-14 days

Intra-abdominal Infections

Complicated: 500 mg PO q12hr or 400 mg IV q12hr for 7-14 days

Lower Respiratory Tract Infections

Mild/moderate: 500 mg PO q12hr or 400 mg IV q12hr for 7-14 days

Severe/complicated: 750 mg PO q12hr or 400 mg IV q8hr for 7-14 days

Limitations-of-use: Reserve fluoroquinolones for patients who do not have other
available treatment options for acute bacterial exacerbation of chronic bronchitis

Nosocomial Pneumonia

Mild/moderate/severe: 400 mg IV q8hr for 10-14 days

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/cipro-xr-ciprofloxacin-342530 2/55



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Cipro, Cipro XR (ciprofloxacin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Skin/Skin Structure Infections

Mild/moderate: 500 mg PO q12hr or 400 mg IV q12hr for 7-14 days

Severe/complicated: 750 mg PO q12hr or 400 mg IV q8hr for 7-14 days

Urinary Tract Infections

Acute uncomplicated: Immediate-release, 250 mg PO q12hr for 3 days; extended-
release, 500 mg PO q24hr for 3 days

Mild/moderate: 250 mg PO q12hr or 200 mg IV q12hr for 7-14 days

Severe/complicated: 500 mg PO q12hr or 400 mg IV q12hr for 7-14 days

Limitations-of-use: Reserve fluoroquinolones for patients who do not have other
available treatment options for uncomplicated urinary tract infections

Urethral & Cervical Gonococcal Infections

Uncomplicated: 250-500 mg PO once

Anthrax Infection

Postexposure therapy

Inhalation (prophylaxis/postexposure): 500 mg PO q12hr or 400 mg IV q12hr for 60
days

Cutaneous: 500 mg PO q12hr or 400 mg IV q12hr for 60 days

Plague

Indication for treatment and prophylaxis of plague due to Yersinia pestis

500-750 mg PO q12hr x14 days, OR

400 mg IV q8-12hr x 14 days

Bronchiectasis (Orphan)

Orphan indication sponsor

Aradigm Corporation, 3929 Point Eden Way, Hayward, CA 94545

Noncystic Fibrosis Bronchiectasis (Orphan)

Dry powder for inhalation: Orphan designation for patients with NCFB who suffer from
frequent severe acute pulmonary bacterial exacerbations which lead to further
inflammation, airway, and lung parenchyma damage

Sponsor

Bayer HealthCare

Dosage Modifications

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/cipro-xr-ciprofloxacin-342530 3/55



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Cipro, Cipro XR (ciprofloxacin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Renal impairment

CrCl >50 mL/min
Dose adjustment not necessary

CrCl 30-50 mL/min
Immediate-release: 250-500 mg PO q12hr

Extended-release: 1 g PO q24hr

Intravenous: 400 mg IV q8-12hr

CrCl 5-29 mL/min
Immediate-release: 250-500 mg PO q18hr

Extended-release: 500 mg PO q24hr

Intravenous: 200-400 mg IV q12-24hr

Hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis
Administer after dialysis

Immediate-release: 250-500 mg PO q24hr

Extended-release: 500 mg PO q24hr

Intravenous: 200-400 mg IV q24hr

Dosing Considerations

ProQuin XR should be taken with a meal, preferably evening meal

Cipro XR may be taken with or without meal; drink fluids liberally

Susceptible organisms

Aeromonas hydrophila, Bacillus anthracis, Bacteroides fragilis, Campylobacter
jejuni, Citrobacter freundii, Citrobacter diversus, Enterobacter cloacae, Enterococcus
faecalis, Escherichia coli, Haemophilus ducreyi, Haemophilus influenzae,
Haemophilus parainfluenzae, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Legionella pneumophila,
Morganella morganii, Moraxella catarrhalis, certain mycobacteria, Neisseria
gonorrhoeae, Proteus mirabilis, Providencia spp, Pseudomonas aeruginosa,
Salmonella typhi, Serratia spp, Shigella spp, methicillin-sensitive Staphylococcus
aureus (MSSA), Staphylococcus epidermis, Staphylococcus saprophyticus,
Streptococcus pneumoniae, Vibrio cholerae, Yersinia enterocolitica

First-line therapy: B anthracis, C freundii, C jejuni, Enterobacter spp, Hafnia alvei, S
typhi, Salmonella spp, Shigella spp; no unanimity on others (eg, K pneumoniae, M
morganii, V cholerae, Y enterocolitica )

PEDIATRIC
Dosage Forms & Strengths

infusion solution

200mg/100mL

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/cipro-xr-ciprofloxacin-342530 4/55



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Cipro, Cipro XR (ciprofloxacin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

200mg/20mL

400mg/40mL

400mg/200mL

oral suspension

250mg/5mL

500mg/5mL

tablet

250mg

500mg

750mg

tablet, extended release

500mg

1000mg

Complicated Urinary Tract Infections or Pyelonephritis

<1 year: Safety and efficacy not established

≥1 year (IV): 6-10 mg/kg q8hr; individual dose not to exceed 400 mg for 10-21 days 

≥1 year (PO): 10-20 mg/kg q12hr; individual dose not to exceed 750 mg q12hr for 10-21
days

Cholera

Single dose: 30 mg/kg PO 

Multiple doses: 30 mg/kg/day PO divided q12hr for 3 days

Plague

Indication for treatment and prophylaxis of plague due to Yersinia pestis in pediatric
patients from birth to 17 years of age

15 mg/kg PO q8-12hr x10-21 days; not to exceed 500 mg/dose, OR 

10 mg/kg IV q8-12hr x 10-21 days; not to exceed 400 mg/dose

Inhalational Anthrax (Off-label)

Postexposure therapy

IV: 10 mg/kg q12hr for 60 days; individual dose not to exceed 400 mg 

PO: 15 mg/kg q12hr for 60 days; individual dose not to exceed 500 mg

Change antibiotic to amoxicillin as soon as penicillin susceptibility confirmed

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/cipro-xr-ciprofloxacin-342530 5/55



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Cipro, Cipro XR (ciprofloxacin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Cystic Fibrosis (Off-label)

PO: 40 mg/kg/day divided q12hr; not to exceed 2 g/day 

IV: 20-30 mg/kg/day divided q8-12hr; not to exceed 1.2 g/day

Interactions

Interaction Checker

Enter a drug name to check for any interactions. Type a drug, OTC, or herbal  and
ciprofloxacin
No Interactions Found
Interactions Found
Contraindicated

Serious

Significant - Monitor Closely

Minor

All Interactions Sort By: Severity
Contraindicated (3)

fezolinetant
ciprofloxacin will increase the level or effect of fezolinetant by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP1A2 metabolism. Contraindicated. Fezolinetant AUC and peak plasma
concentration are increased if coadministered with drugs that are weak, moderate,
or strong CYP1A2 inhibitors

flibanserin
ciprofloxacin will increase the level or effect of flibanserin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated. Coadministration
of flibanserin with moderate or strong CYP3A4 inhibitors is contraindicated. Severe
hypotension or syncope can occur.

lomitapide
ciprofloxacin increases levels of lomitapide by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme
CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated. Lomitapide is contraindicated with strong or
moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors.

Serious (85)

alosetron
ciprofloxacin will increase the level or effect of alosetron by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP1A2 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Alosetron is associated
with potentially serious and life-threatening, dose-related gastrointestinal adverse

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/cipro-xr-ciprofloxacin-342530 6/55



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Cipro, Cipro XR (ciprofloxacin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

effects, concomitant use with CYP450 1A2 inhibitors should generally be avoided if
possible.

aluminum hydroxide
aluminum hydroxide decreases levels of ciprofloxacin by inhibition of GI absorption.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Separate by
2 hours.

aminolevulinic acid oral
aminolevulinic acid oral, ciprofloxacin. Either increases toxicity of the other by
pharmacodynamic synergism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Avoid administering
other phototoxic drugs with aminolevulinic acid oral for 24 hr during perioperative
period.

aminolevulinic acid topical
ciprofloxacin increases toxicity of aminolevulinic acid topical by pharmacodynamic
synergism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Coadministration of photosensitizing drugs
may enhance the phototoxic reaction to photodynamic therapy with aminolevulinic
acid.

amisulpride
amisulpride and ciprofloxacin both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug. ECG monitoring is recommended if coadministered.

anagrelide
anagrelide and ciprofloxacin both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug.

BCG vaccine live
ciprofloxacin decreases effects of BCG vaccine live by pharmacodynamic
antagonism. Contraindicated. Antibiotics may diminish therapeutic effects of BCG.
Wait until Abx Tx complete to administer live bacterial vaccine.

brigatinib
ciprofloxacin increases levels of brigatinib by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme
CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Avoid coadministration of
brigatinib with moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors. If unable to avoid, reduce brigatinib
dose by approximately 40% (see Dosage Modifications in drug monograph).

buprenorphine
buprenorphine and ciprofloxacin both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug.

buprenorphine buccal
buprenorphine buccal and ciprofloxacin both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use
Alternate Drug.

buprenorphine subdermal implant
buprenorphine subdermal implant and ciprofloxacin both increase QTc interval.
Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

buprenorphine transdermal

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/cipro-xr-ciprofloxacin-342530 7/55



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Cipro, Cipro XR (ciprofloxacin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

buprenorphine transdermal and ciprofloxacin both increase QTc interval. Avoid or
Use Alternate Drug.

buprenorphine, long-acting injection
buprenorphine, long-acting injection and ciprofloxacin both increase QTc interval.
Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

carbonyl iron
carbonyl iron decreases levels of ciprofloxacin by inhibition of GI absorption.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

ceritinib
ceritinib and ciprofloxacin both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

cholera vaccine
ciprofloxacin, cholera vaccine. pharmacodynamic antagonism. Avoid or Use
Alternate Drug. Avoid coadministration of cholera vaccine with systemic antibiotics
since these agents may be active against the vaccine strain. Do not administer
cholera vaccine to patients who have received oral or parenteral antibiotics within
14 days prior to vaccination.

clarithromycin
clarithromycin and ciprofloxacin both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug.

clomipramine
ciprofloxacin will increase the level or effect of clomipramine by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP1A2 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Concurrent use of
drugs that can cause QT interval prolongation may result in additive effects and
increased risk of ventricular arrhythmias. It is important to monitor therapy carefully.

clozapine
ciprofloxacin will increase the level or effect of clozapine by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP1A2 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Use caution when
administering ciprofloxacin in patients receiving drugs that prolong the QT interval.
At elevated serum concentrations, clozapine may produce clinically significant
prolongation of the QTc interval.

clozapine and ciprofloxacin both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

cobimetinib
ciprofloxacin will increase the level or effect of cobimetinib by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. If
concurrent short term (14 days or less) use of moderate CYP3A inhibitors is
unavoidable for patients who are taking cobimetinib 60 mg, reduce the cobimetinib
dose to 20 mg. After discontinuation of a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, resume
cobimetinib 60 mg. Use an alternative to a moderate CYP3A inhibitor in patients
who are taking a reduced dose of cobimetinib (40 or 20 mg daily).

defactinib
ciprofloxacin increases levels of defactinib by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme
CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Defactinib exposure may be

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/cipro-xr-ciprofloxacin-342530 8/55



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Cipro, Cipro XR (ciprofloxacin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

increased when coadministered with moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors.

desflurane
desflurane and ciprofloxacin both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug.

didanosine
didanosine decreases levels of ciprofloxacin by inhibition of GI absorption. Applies
only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Oral ciprofloxacin
should not be administered simultaneously with didanosine (chewable tablets or
powder for oral solution). Administer oral doses of ciprofloxacin 2 hours before or 6
hours after didanosine, chewable tablets or powder for oral solution.

dofetilide
dofetilide increases toxicity of ciprofloxacin by QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug.

dordaviprone
ciprofloxacin increases levels of dordaviprone by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme
CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Concomitant use with moderate
CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase dordaviprone exposure and risk of adverse effects
(eg, QTc interval prolongation). If coadministration cannot be avoided, decrease the
dordaviprone dosage (see Dosing) and increase the frequency of ECG and
electrolyte monitoring.

dronedarone
ciprofloxacin and dronedarone both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug. The use of dronedarone in combination with other medications that can
prolong the QT interval is contraindicated.

eliglustat
eliglustat and ciprofloxacin both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

encorafenib
encorafenib and ciprofloxacin both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug.

ensartinib
ciprofloxacin increases levels of ensartinib by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme
CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Coadministration of ensartinib
with strong or moderate CYP3A inhibitors may increase ensartinib exposure.

entrectinib
ciprofloxacin and entrectinib both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug.

eribulin
eribulin and ciprofloxacin both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

erlotinib
ciprofloxacin increases levels of erlotinib by decreasing metabolism. Avoid or Use
Alternate Drug. Erlotinib is a substrate of CYP1A2 and CYP3A4 and
coadministration with a combined CYP3A4 and CYP1A2 inhibitor may increase

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/cipro-xr-ciprofloxacin-342530 9/55



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Cipro, Cipro XR (ciprofloxacin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

erlotinib levels and risk of adverse effects. If coadministration cannot be avoided,
decrease the erlotinib dosage (see Dosing). Coadministration of erlotinib and
ciprofloxacin increased erlotinib exposure in a drug interaction study.

fexinidazole
fexinidazole and ciprofloxacin both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug. Avoid coadministration of fexinidazole with drugs known to block potassium
channels and/or prolong QT interval.

fosfomycin
fosfomycin and ciprofloxacin both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug. The risk of QT prolongation may increase in patients with electrolyte
abnormalities (such as hypokalemia and hypocalcemia), patients with conditions
that have potential to cause electrolyte imbalance (such as renal impairment), or
patients taking other drugs affecting electrolyte balance or QT prolongation; avoid
this drug in patients with known QT prolongation or ventricular arrhythmias,
including a history of torsade de pointes; monitor electrolytes during treatment

givinostat
ciprofloxacin and givinostat both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug. If unable to avoid coadministration, obtain ECGs when initiating, during
concomitant use, and as clinically indicated. Withhold if QTc interval >500 ms or a
change from baseline >60 ms.

glasdegib
ciprofloxacin and glasdegib both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug. If coadministration unavoidable, monitor for increased risk of QTc interval
prolongation.

hydroxychloroquine sulfate
hydroxychloroquine sulfate and ciprofloxacin both increase QTc interval. Avoid or
Use Alternate Drug.

ibrutinib
ciprofloxacin increases levels of ibrutinib by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme
CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Avoid concomitant use of
ibrutinib and strong CYP3A4 inhibitors. If a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor must be used
short-term (eg, anti-infectives for =7 days), interrupt ibrutinib therapy until strong
CYP3A4 inhibitor is discontinued.

iloperidone
ciprofloxacin and iloperidone both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug.

imipramine
ciprofloxacin will increase the level or effect of imipramine by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP1A2 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Concurrent use of
drugs that can cause QT interval prolongation may result in additive effects and
increased risk of ventricular arrhythmias. It is important to monitor therapy carefully.

inotuzumab
inotuzumab and ciprofloxacin both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug. If unable to avoid concomitant use, obtain ECGs and electrolytes before and

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/cipro-xr-ciprofloxacin-342530 10/55



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Cipro, Cipro XR (ciprofloxacin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

after initiation of any drug known to prolong QTc, and periodically monitor as
clinically indicated during treatment.

iron sucrose
iron sucrose decreases levels of ciprofloxacin by inhibition of GI absorption. Applies
only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Coadministration of
ciprofloxacin with multivalent cation-containing products may reduce the
bioavailability of ciprofloxacin by 90%. Administer ciprofloxacin at least 2 hours
before or 6 hours after using these products. Use alternatives if available.

isoflurane
isoflurane and ciprofloxacin both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug.

ivosidenib
ivosidenib and ciprofloxacin both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug. Avoid coadministration of QTc prolonging drugs with ivosidenib or replace
with alternate therapies. If coadministration of a QTc prolonging drug is
unavoidable, monitor for increased risk of QTc interval prolongation.

lefamulin
lefamulin and ciprofloxacin both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

lonafarnib
ciprofloxacin will increase the level or effect of lonafarnib by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. If
coadministration of lonafarnib (a sensitive CYP3A substrate) with weak CYP3A
inhibitors is unavoidable, reduce to, or continue lonafarnib at starting dose. Closely
monitor for arrhythmias and events (eg, syncope, heart palpitations) since
lonafarnib effect on QT interval is unknown.

lurbinectedin
ciprofloxacin increases levels of lurbinectedin by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme
CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Coadministration with strong
CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase lurbinectedin exposure and risk of adverse effects.
If concomitant use cannot be avoided, decrease the lurbinectedin dosage (see
Dosing).

macimorelin
macimorelin and ciprofloxacin both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug. Macimorelin causes an increase of ~11 msec in the corrected QT interval.
Avoid coadministration with drugs that prolong QT interval, which could increase
risk for developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Allow sufficient
washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval before
administering macimorelin.

mefloquine
mefloquine increases toxicity of ciprofloxacin by QTc interval. Avoid or Use
Alternate Drug. Mefloquine may enhance the QTc prolonging effect of high risk QTc
prolonging agents.

methyl aminolevulinate

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/cipro-xr-ciprofloxacin-342530 11/55



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Cipro, Cipro XR (ciprofloxacin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

ciprofloxacin, methyl aminolevulinate. Either increases toxicity of the other by
pharmacodynamic synergism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Each drug may increase
the photosensitizing effect of the other.

microbiota oral
ciprofloxacin decreases effects of microbiota oral by pharmacodynamic antagonism.
Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Microbiota oral contains bacterial spores.
Antibacterial agents may decrease efficacy if coadministered. Complete antibiotic
regimens 2-4 days before initiating microbiota oral. .

milsaperidone
ciprofloxacin and milsaperidone both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug.

mirtazapine
mirtazapine and ciprofloxacin both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug.

olanzapine
olanzapine and ciprofloxacin both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug.

olaparib
ciprofloxacin will increase the level or effect of olaparib by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. If
coadministration with moderate CYP3A inhibitors cannot be avoided, reduce
olaparib dose to 200 mg (capsule) or 150 mg (tablet) PO BID. Do not substitute
tablets with capsules.

ondansetron
ciprofloxacin and ondansetron both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug. Avoid with congenital long QT syndrome; ECG monitoring recommended with
concomitant medications that prolong QT interval, electrolyte abnormalities, CHF,
or bradyarrhythmias.

oxaliplatin
oxaliplatin and ciprofloxacin both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug.

panobinostat
ciprofloxacin and panobinostat both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug. Panobinostat is known to significantly prolong QT interval. Panobinostat
prescribing information states use with drugs known to prolong QTc is not
recommended.

pirfenidone
ciprofloxacin will increase the level or effect of pirfenidone by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP1A2 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Use of strong CYP1A2
inhibitors should be discontinued before initiating pirfenidone and avoided during
treatment; if strong CYP1A2 inhibitors are the only drug of choice, dosage
reductions are recommended

pitolisant

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/cipro-xr-ciprofloxacin-342530 12/55



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Cipro, Cipro XR (ciprofloxacin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

ciprofloxacin and pitolisant both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

rasagiline
ciprofloxacin will increase the level or effect of rasagiline by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP1A2 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Ciprofloxacin may
increase rasagiline concentration resulting in increased adverse reactions. Patients
should be closely monitored during concomitant use of these drugs.

remibrutinib
ciprofloxacin increases levels of remibrutinib by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme
CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Strong or moderate CYP3A4
inhibitors increase remibrutinib exposure, which may increase risk of adverse
reactions.

ribociclib
ribociclib increases toxicity of ciprofloxacin by QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug.

rilzabrutinib
ciprofloxacin increases levels of rilzabrutinib by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme
CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Coadministration with moderate
CYP3A inhibitors may increase rilzabrutinib exposure and risk of adverse effects.
Hold rilzabrutinib if moderate CYP3A inhibitor given for short-term use (eg, <7
days).

selinexor
selinexor, ciprofloxacin. unspecified interaction mechanism. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug. Patients treated with selinexor may experience neurological toxicities. Avoid
taking selinexor with other medications that may cause dizziness or confusion.

selumetinib
ciprofloxacin will increase the level or effect of selumetinib by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. If
coadministration with strong or moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors cannot be avoided,
reduce selumetinib dosage (refer to selumetinib monograph for further information).
After discontinuation of the strong or moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor for 3 elimination
half-lives, resume selumetinib dose that was taken before initiating the inhibitor.

sevoflurane
sevoflurane and ciprofloxacin both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug.

siponimod
siponimod and ciprofloxacin both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug.

sotorasib
sotorasib will decrease the level or effect of ciprofloxacin by P-glycoprotein (MDR1)
efflux transporter. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. If use is unavoidable, refer to the
prescribing information of the P-gp substrate for dosage modifications.

taletrectinib

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/cipro-xr-ciprofloxacin-342530 13/55



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Cipro, Cipro XR (ciprofloxacin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

ciprofloxacin increases levels of taletrectinib by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme
CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Coadministration with moderate
CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase taletrectinib exposure and risk of adverse effects
(eg, QTc interval prolongation).

ciprofloxacin and taletrectinib both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug. Concomitant use may increase the risk of QTc interval prolongation.

tepotinib
tepotinib will increase the level or effect of ciprofloxacin by P-glycoprotein (MDR1)
efflux transporter. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. If concomitant use unavoidable,
reduce the P-gp substrate dosage if recommended in its approved product labeling.

theophylline
ciprofloxacin will increase the level or effect of theophylline by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP1A2 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Concomitant use of
theophylline and ciprofloxacin has decreased theophylline clearance and increased
plasma levels and symptoms of toxicity. Serious and fatal reactions have included
cardiac arrest, seizure, status epilepticus, and respiratory failure. If concomitant use
cannot be avoided, monitor theophylline levels and adjust dosage as needed.

ciprofloxacin will increase the level or effect of theophylline by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
Concomitant use of theophylline and ciprofloxacin has decreased theophylline
clearance and increased plasma levels and symptoms of toxicity. Serious and fatal
reactions have included cardiac arrest, seizure, status epilepticus, and respiratory
failure. If concomitant use cannot be avoided, monitor theophylline levels and
adjust dosage as needed.

tizanidine
ciprofloxacin will increase the level or effect of tizanidine by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP1A2 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Coadministration of
ciprofloxacin and tizanidine is contraindicated.

toremifene
ciprofloxacin and toremifene both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug. Concurrent use of toremifene with agents causing QT prolongation should be
avoided. If concomitant use is required it's recommended that toremifene be
interrupted. If interruption not possible, patients requiring therapy with a drug that
prolongs QT should be closely monitored. ECGs should be obtained for high risk
patients.

tretinoin
ciprofloxacin, tretinoin. Mechanism: pharmacodynamic synergism. Avoid or Use
Alternate Drug. Both drugs have increased risk of phototoxicity, use caution with
concomitant use.

tretinoin topical
ciprofloxacin, tretinoin topical. Mechanism: pharmacodynamic synergism. Avoid or
Use Alternate Drug. Both drugs have increased risk of phototoxicity, use caution
with concomitant use.

trilaciclib

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/cipro-xr-ciprofloxacin-342530 14/55



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Cipro, Cipro XR (ciprofloxacin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

trilaciclib will decrease the level or effect of ciprofloxacin by Other (see comment).
Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Avoid coadministration of trilaciclib (OCT2, MATE1,
and MATE-2K inhibitor) with substrates where minimal increased concentration in
kidney or blood may lead to serious or life-threatening toxicities.

typhoid vaccine live
ciprofloxacin decreases effects of typhoid vaccine live by pharmacodynamic
antagonism. Contraindicated. Antibiotics may diminish the therapeutic effects of
Typhoid Vaccine. Wait until Abx Tx complete to administer live bacterial vaccine.

umeclidinium bromide/vilanterol inhaled
ciprofloxacin increases toxicity of umeclidinium bromide/vilanterol inhaled by QTc
interval. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Exercise extreme caution when vilanterol
coadministered with drugs that prolong QTc interval; adrenergic agonist effects on
the cardiovascular system may be potentiated.

vandetanib
ciprofloxacin, vandetanib. Either increases toxicity of the other by QTc interval.
Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Avoid coadministration with drugs known to prolong
QT interval; if a drug known to prolong QT interval must be used, more frequent
ECG monitoring is recommended.

vemurafenib
vemurafenib and ciprofloxacin both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug. Concomitant use of vemurafenib with drugs that prolong QT interval is not
recommended.

venetoclax
ciprofloxacin will increase the level or effect of venetoclax by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. If a
moderate CYP3A inhibitor must be used, reduce the venetoclax dose by at least
50%. Monitor more closely for signs of venetoclax toxicities.

vilanterol/fluticasone furoate inhaled
ciprofloxacin increases toxicity of vilanterol/fluticasone furoate inhaled by QTc
interval. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Exercise extreme caution when vilanterol
coadministered with drugs that prolong QTc interval; adrenergic agonist effects on
the cardiovascular system may be potentiated.

vorasidenib
ciprofloxacin increases levels of vorasidenib by affecting hepatic enzyme CYP1A2
metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Coadministration of vorasidenib
(sensitive CYP1A2 substrate) and ciprofloxacin (moderate CYP1A2 inhibitor)
resulted in increased vorasidenib exposure. If coadministration cannot be avoided,
monitor more frequently for vorasidenib adverse effects and reduce the dosage if
necessary.

ziftomenib
ciprofloxacin and ziftomenib both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug. Avoid coadministration of ziftomenib with other drugs known to prolong the
QTc interval. If unavoidable, obtain ECGs when initiating, during concomitant use,

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/cipro-xr-ciprofloxacin-342530 15/55



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Cipro, Cipro XR (ciprofloxacin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

and as clinically indicated. Interrupt ziftomenib with QTc interval > 500 ms or a
change from baseline is > 60 ms

Monitor Closely (262)

abemaciclib
abemaciclib will increase the level or effect of ciprofloxacin by P-glycoprotein
(MDR1) efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

abrocitinib
abrocitinib will increase the level or effect of ciprofloxacin by P-glycoprotein
(MDR1) efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

acarbose
ciprofloxacin increases effects of acarbose by pharmacodynamic synergism. Use
Caution/Monitor. Quinolone antibiotic administration may result in hyper- or
hypoglycemia. .

adagrasib
adagrasib will increase the level or effect of ciprofloxacin by P-glycoprotein (MDR1)
efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

aficamten
aficamten will increase the level or effect of ciprofloxacin by P-glycoprotein (MDR1)
efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

albuterol
ciprofloxacin and albuterol both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.
Combination may increase risk of QT prolongation; monitor electrolytes and ECG
changes

albuterol inhaled
ciprofloxacin and albuterol inhaled both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.
Combination may increase risk of QT prolongation; monitor electrolytes and ECG
changes

alfuzosin
ciprofloxacin and alfuzosin both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.

alfuzosin and ciprofloxacin both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.

amifampridine
ciprofloxacin increases toxicity of amifampridine by Other (see comment). Modify
Therapy/Monitor Closely. Comment: Amifampridine can cause seizures.
Coadministration with drugs that lower seizure threshold may increase this risk.

amiodarone
ciprofloxacin and amiodarone both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.
Ciprofloxacin elicits minimal effects on QT interval. Caution if used in combination
with other drugs known to affect QT interval or in patients with other risk factors.

amlodipine

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/cipro-xr-ciprofloxacin-342530 16/55



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Cipro, Cipro XR (ciprofloxacin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

ciprofloxacin increases levels of amlodipine by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme
CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Ciprofloxacin may increase the levels of
amlodipine; monitor for hypotension, edema, and other amlodipine-related adverse
effects.

apixaban
apixaban will increase the level or effect of ciprofloxacin by P-glycoprotein (MDR1)
efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

arformoterol
ciprofloxacin and arformoterol both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.
Combination may increase risk of QT prolongation; monitor electrolytes and ECG
changes

aripiprazole
aripiprazole and ciprofloxacin both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.

arsenic trioxide
ciprofloxacin and arsenic trioxide both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.
Ciprofloxacin elicits minimal effects on QT interval. Caution if used in combination
with other drugs known to affect QT interval or in patients with other risk factors.

artemether
ciprofloxacin and artemether both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.
Ciprofloxacin elicits minimal effects on QT interval. Caution if used in combination
with other drugs known to affect QT interval or in patients with other risk factors.

artemether/lumefantrine
ciprofloxacin and artemether/lumefantrine both increase QTc interval. Use
Caution/Monitor. Ciprofloxacin elicits minimal effects on QT interval. Caution if used
in combination with other drugs known to affect QT interval or in patients with
other risk factors.

asenapine
ciprofloxacin will increase the level or effect of asenapine by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP1A2 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Asenapine has been associated
with dose-related prolongation of the QT interval; asenapine should not be used
with other agents also known to have this effect.

ciprofloxacin and asenapine both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.
Ciprofloxacin elicits minimal effects on QT interval. Caution if used in combination
with other drugs known to affect QT interval or in patients with other risk factors.

asenapine transdermal
asenapine transdermal and ciprofloxacin both increase QTc interval. Use
Caution/Monitor.

aspirin
aspirin decreases levels of ciprofloxacin by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: Buffered aspirin may decrease absorption of
quinolones. Consider administering 2 hr before or 6 hr after, buffered aspirin
administration.

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/cipro-xr-ciprofloxacin-342530 17/55



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Cipro, Cipro XR (ciprofloxacin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

aspirin/citric acid/sodium bicarbonate
aspirin/citric acid/sodium bicarbonate decreases levels of ciprofloxacin by Other (see
comment). Use Caution/Monitor. Comment: Buffered aspirin may decrease
absorption of quinolones. Consider administering 2 hr before or 6 hr after, buffered
aspirin administration.

atomoxetine
atomoxetine and ciprofloxacin both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.

avapritinib
ciprofloxacin will increase the level or effect of avapritinib by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

axitinib
ciprofloxacin increases levels of axitinib by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme
CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

azithromycin
azithromycin increases toxicity of ciprofloxacin by QTc interval. Use
Caution/Monitor.

azithromycin will increase the level or effect of ciprofloxacin by P-glycoprotein
(MDR1) efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

bazedoxifene/conjugated estrogens
ciprofloxacin will decrease the level or effect of bazedoxifene/conjugated estrogens
by altering intestinal flora. Applies only to oral forms of hormone. Low risk of
contraceptive failure. Use Caution/Monitor.

bedaquiline
ciprofloxacin and bedaquiline both increase QTc interval. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely. ECG should be monitored closely

belumosudil
belumosudil will increase the level or effect of ciprofloxacin by P-glycoprotein
(MDR1) efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

benazepril
benazepril increases toxicity of ciprofloxacin by unknown mechanism. Use
Caution/Monitor. ACE Inhibitors may increase arrhythmogenic potential of
ciprofloxacin, possibly by increasing serum potassium levels.

bendamustine
ciprofloxacin increases levels of bendamustine by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP1A2 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Consider alternate therapy due to risk of
increased bendamustine exposure and adverse effects. In vitro, bendamustine is a
CYP1A2 substrate.

berotralstat
berotralstat will increase the level or effect of ciprofloxacin by P-glycoprotein
(MDR1) efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor. Monitor or titrate P-gp substrate
dose if coadministered.

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/cipro-xr-ciprofloxacin-342530 18/55



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Cipro, Cipro XR (ciprofloxacin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

betamethasone
betamethasone, ciprofloxacin. Either increases toxicity of the other by Other (see
comment). Use Caution/Monitor. Comment: Coadministration of quinolone
antibiotics and corticosteroids may increase risk of tendon rupture.

betaxolol
ciprofloxacin increases levels of betaxolol by decreasing metabolism. Use
Caution/Monitor. Consider modifying therapy; CYP1A2 inhibitors may decrease
metabolism of 1A2 substrates.

biotin
biotin will decrease the level or effect of ciprofloxacin by altering intestinal flora.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor. Administer
ciprofloxacin 4 hours before or 2 hours after biotin.

bosutinib
bosutinib increases levels of ciprofloxacin by P-glycoprotein (MDR1) efflux
transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

caffeine
ciprofloxacin will increase the level or effect of caffeine by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP1A2 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. The hepatic metabolism of caffeine may
be decreased by ciprofloxacin; pharmacologic effects of caffeine may be increased.

calcium acetate
calcium acetate decreases effects of ciprofloxacin by inhibition of GI absorption.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor. Ciprofloxacin should
be administered 2 hr before or 6 hr after calcium salts.

calcium carbonate
calcium carbonate decreases effects of ciprofloxacin by inhibition of GI absorption.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor. Ciprofloxacin should
be administered 2 hr before or 6 hr after calcium salts.

calcium chloride
calcium chloride decreases effects of ciprofloxacin by inhibition of GI absorption.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor. Ciprofloxacin should
be administered 2 hr before or 6 hr after calcium salts.

calcium citrate
calcium citrate decreases effects of ciprofloxacin by inhibition of GI absorption.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor. Ciprofloxacin should
be administered 2 hr before or 6 hr after calcium salts.

calcium gluconate
calcium gluconate decreases effects of ciprofloxacin by inhibition of GI absorption.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor. Ciprofloxacin should
be administered 2 hr before or 6 hr after calcium salts.

cannabidiol
cannabidiol increases levels of ciprofloxacin by P-glycoprotein (MDR1) efflux
transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/cipro-xr-ciprofloxacin-342530 19/55



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Cipro, Cipro XR (ciprofloxacin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

capmatinib
capmatinib will increase the level or effect of ciprofloxacin by P-glycoprotein
(MDR1) efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

captopril
captopril increases toxicity of ciprofloxacin by Mechanism: unspecified interaction
mechanism. Use Caution/Monitor. ACE Inhibitors increase arrhythmogenic potential
of ciprofloxacin. Monitor ECG and QT interval.

carbamazepine
ciprofloxacin will increase the level or effect of carbamazepine by decreasing
metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Monitor plasma levels when used
concomitantly

carfilzomib
carfilzomib will increase the level or effect of ciprofloxacin by P-glycoprotein
(MDR1) efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

celecoxib
ciprofloxacin, celecoxib. Other (see comment). Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.
Comment: Mechanism: unknown. Increased risk of CNS stimulation and seizures
with high doses of fluoroquinolones.

chloroquine
chloroquine and ciprofloxacin both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.
Ciprofloxacin elicits minimal effects on QT interval. Caution if used in combination
with other drugs known to affect QT interval or in patients with other risk factors.

chlorpromazine
ciprofloxacin and chlorpromazine both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.
Ciprofloxacin elicits minimal effects on QT interval. Caution if used in combination
with other drugs known to affect QT interval or in patients with other risk factors.

citalopram
ciprofloxacin and citalopram both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor. ECG
monitoring is recommended, along with drugs that may prolong the QT interval.

cobicistat
cobicistat will increase the level or effect of ciprofloxacin by P-glycoprotein (MDR1)
efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

colchicine
ciprofloxacin increases toxicity of colchicine by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme
CYP3A4 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Fatal drug interactions
reported when colchicine administered with dual inhibitor of CYP3A4 and P-
glycoprotein; toxicities also reported when colchicine administered with inhibitors of
CYP3A4; coadminister only if no other option available; contraindicated in renal or
hepatic impairment with drugs that inhibit both P-gp and CYP3A4.

conjugated estrogens
ciprofloxacin will decrease the level or effect of conjugated estrogens by altering
intestinal flora. Applies only to oral forms of hormone. Low risk of contraceptive

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/cipro-xr-ciprofloxacin-342530 20/55



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Cipro, Cipro XR (ciprofloxacin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

failure. Use Caution/Monitor.

corticotropin
corticotropin and ciprofloxacin both increase Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Coadministration of quinolone antibiotics and corticosteroids may
increase risk of tendon rupture.

cortisone
cortisone and ciprofloxacin both increase Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Coadministration of quinolone antibiotics and corticosteroids may
increase risk of tendon rupture.

crizotinib
crizotinib and ciprofloxacin both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor. ECG
monitoring is recommended, along with drugs that may prolong the QT interval.

danicopan
danicopan will increase the level or effect of ciprofloxacin by P-glycoprotein
(MDR1) efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor. Danicopan increases plasma
concentrations of P-gp substrates; consider dose reduction of P-gp substrates
where minimal concentration changes may lead to serious adverse reactions.

daridorexant
daridorexant will increase the level or effect of ciprofloxacin by P-glycoprotein
(MDR1) efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

dasatinib
dasatinib and ciprofloxacin both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.

degarelix
ciprofloxacin and degarelix both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.
Ciprofloxacin elicits minimal effects on QT interval. Caution if used in combination
with other drugs known to affect QT interval or in patients with other risk factors.

deutetrabenazine
deutetrabenazine and ciprofloxacin both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.
At the maximum recommended dose, deutetrabenazine does not prolong QT
interval to a clinically relevant extent. Certain circumstances may increase risk of
torsade de pointes and/or sudden death in association with drugs that prolong the
QTc interval (eg, bradycardia, hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia, coadministration
with other drugs that prolong QTc interval, presence of congenital QT
prolongation).

dexamethasone
dexamethasone and ciprofloxacin both increase Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Coadministration of quinolone antibiotics and corticosteroids may
increase risk of tendon rupture.

diazoxide choline
ciprofloxacin increases levels of diazoxide choline by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP1A2 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Monitor diazoxide choline for adverse
effects if coadministered with moderate CYP1A2 inhibitors.

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/cipro-xr-ciprofloxacin-342530 21/55



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Cipro, Cipro XR (ciprofloxacin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

dichlorphenamide
dichlorphenamide and ciprofloxacin both decrease serum potassium. Use
Caution/Monitor.

diclofenac
diclofenac, ciprofloxacin. Other (see comment). Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.
Comment: Mechanism: unknown. Increased risk of CNS stimulation and seizures
with high doses of fluoroquinolones.

dienogest/estradiol valerate
ciprofloxacin will decrease the level or effect of dienogest/estradiol valerate by
altering intestinal flora. Applies only to oral forms of hormone. Low risk of
contraceptive failure. Use Caution/Monitor. An alternate or additional form of birth
control may be advisable during concomitant use.

diflunisal
diflunisal, ciprofloxacin. Other (see comment). Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.
Comment: Mechanism: unknown. Increased risk of CNS stimulation and seizures
with high doses of fluoroquinolones.

disopyramide
ciprofloxacin and disopyramide both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.
Ciprofloxacin elicits minimal effects on QT interval. Caution if used in combination
with other drugs known to affect QT interval or in patients with other risk factors.

dofetilide
ciprofloxacin and dofetilide both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.
Ciprofloxacin elicits minimal effects on QT interval. Caution if used in combination
with other drugs known to affect QT interval or in patients with other risk factors.

dolasetron
ciprofloxacin and dolasetron both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.
Ciprofloxacin elicits minimal effects on QT interval. Caution if used in combination
with other drugs known to affect QT interval or in patients with other risk factors.

donepezil
donepezil and ciprofloxacin both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.

doravirine
ciprofloxacin increases levels of doravirine by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme
CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Monitor for increased adverse effects if
doravirine is coadministered with strong or moderate CYP3A inhibitors.

doxepin
doxepin and ciprofloxacin both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.

dronedarone
dronedarone will increase the level or effect of ciprofloxacin by P-glycoprotein
(MDR1) efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

droperidol
ciprofloxacin and droperidol both decrease QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.
Ciprofloxacin elicits minimal effects on QT interval. Caution if used in combination

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/cipro-xr-ciprofloxacin-342530 22/55



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Cipro, Cipro XR (ciprofloxacin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

with other drugs known to affect QT interval or in patients with other risk factors.

duloxetine
ciprofloxacin will increase the level or effect of duloxetine by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP1A2 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Coadministration of CYP1A2
inhibiting quinolones with duloxetine may lead to significant increases in duloxetine
levels, AUC, and half-life. Consider therapy modification if duloxetine is necessary.

efavirenz
efavirenz and ciprofloxacin both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.

elagolix
elagolix will increase the level or effect of ciprofloxacin by P-glycoprotein (MDR1)
efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

eliglustat
eliglustat increases levels of ciprofloxacin by P-glycoprotein (MDR1) efflux
transporter. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Monitor therapeutic drug
concentrations, as indicated, or consider reducing the dosage of the P-gp substrate
and titrate to clinical effect.

elinzanetant
ciprofloxacin increases levels of elinzanetant by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme
CYP3A4 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Reduce elinzanetant dose if
coadministered with moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors (see drug monograph for dosage
modifications).

eltrombopag
ciprofloxacin will increase the level or effect of eltrombopag by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP1A2 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

eluxadoline
ciprofloxacin increases levels of eluxadoline by affecting hepatic enzyme CYP1A2
metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. As a precautionary measure due to incomplete
information on the metabolism of eluxadoline, use caution when coadministered
with strong CYP1A2 inhibitors.

eplerenone
ciprofloxacin increases levels of eplerenone by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme
CYP3A4 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Modify eplerenone dose if
coadministered with moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors (see drug monograph).

erythromycin base
ciprofloxacin and erythromycin base both increase QTc interval. Use
Caution/Monitor. Coadministration of ciprofloxacin with drugs known to prolong QT
interval could increase risk of developing torsade de pointes in predisposed
patients; however less likely with ciprofloxacin than other quinolones.

erythromycin ethylsuccinate
ciprofloxacin and erythromycin ethylsuccinate both increase QTc interval. Use
Caution/Monitor. Coadministration of ciprofloxacin with drugs known to prolong QT

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/cipro-xr-ciprofloxacin-342530 23/55



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Cipro, Cipro XR (ciprofloxacin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

interval could increase risk of developing torsade de pointes in predisposed
patients; however less likely with ciprofloxacin than other quinolones.

erythromycin lactobionate
ciprofloxacin and erythromycin lactobionate both increase QTc interval. Use
Caution/Monitor. Coadministration of ciprofloxacin with drugs known to prolong QT
interval could increase risk of developing torsade de pointes in predisposed
patients; however less likely with ciprofloxacin than other quinolones.

erythromycin stearate
ciprofloxacin and erythromycin stearate both increase QTc interval. Use
Caution/Monitor. Coadministration of ciprofloxacin with drugs known to prolong QT
interval could increase risk of developing torsade de pointes in predisposed
patients; however less likely with ciprofloxacin than other quinolones.

escitalopram
escitalopram increases toxicity of ciprofloxacin by QTc interval. Use
Caution/Monitor.

estradiol
ciprofloxacin will decrease the level or effect of estradiol by altering intestinal flora.
Applies only to oral forms of hormone. Low risk of contraceptive failure. Use
Caution/Monitor.

estrogens conjugated synthetic
ciprofloxacin will decrease the level or effect of estrogens conjugated synthetic by
altering intestinal flora. Applies only to oral forms of hormone. Low risk of
contraceptive failure. Use Caution/Monitor.

estropipate
ciprofloxacin will decrease the level or effect of estropipate by altering intestinal
flora. Applies only to oral forms of hormone. Low risk of contraceptive failure. Use
Caution/Monitor.

ethinylestradiol
ciprofloxacin will decrease the level or effect of ethinylestradiol by altering
intestinal flora. Applies only to oral forms of hormone. Low risk of contraceptive
failure. Use Caution/Monitor.

etodolac
etodolac, ciprofloxacin. Other (see comment). Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.
Comment: Mechanism: unknown. Increased risk of CNS stimulation and seizures
with high doses of fluoroquinolones.

etrasimod
etrasimod, ciprofloxacin. Either increases effects of the other by QTc interval. Modify
Therapy/Monitor Closely. Transient decrease in heart rate and AV conduction delays
may occur when initiating etrasimod. Owing to potential of additive effect on heart
rate, etrasimod may increase risk of QT prolongation and Torsades de Pointes when
coadministered with Class Ia or Class III antiarrhythmic drugs, or other drugs that
prolong the QT interval. .

ezogabine

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/cipro-xr-ciprofloxacin-342530 24/55



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Cipro, Cipro XR (ciprofloxacin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

ezogabine, ciprofloxacin. Either increases toxicity of the other by QTc interval. Use
Caution/Monitor. Slight and transient QT-prolongation observed with ezogabine,
particularly when dose titrated to 1200 mg/day. QT interval should be monitored
when ezogabine is prescribed with agents known to increase QT interval.

fenoprofen
fenoprofen, ciprofloxacin. Other (see comment). Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.
Comment: Mechanism: unknown. Increased risk of CNS stimulation and seizures
with high doses of fluoroquinolones.

ferric citrate
ferric citrate will decrease the level or effect of ciprofloxacin by drug binding in GI
tract. Use Caution/Monitor. Take at least 2 hours before or after ferric citrate

ferric maltol
ferric maltol decreases effects of ciprofloxacin by inhibition of GI absorption.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor. Coadministration of
ciprofloxacin with multivalent cation-containing products may reduce the
bioavailability of ciprofloxacin by 90%. Administer ciprofloxacin at least 2 hours
before or 6 hours after using these products. Use alternatives if available.

ferrous fumarate
ferrous fumarate decreases levels of ciprofloxacin by inhibition of GI absorption.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor. Coadministration of
ciprofloxacin with multivalent cation-containing products may reduce the
bioavailability of ciprofloxacin by 90%. Administer ciprofloxacin at least 2 hours
before or 6 hours after using these products. Use alternatives if available.

ferrous gluconate
ferrous gluconate decreases levels of ciprofloxacin by inhibition of GI absorption.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor. Coadministration of
ciprofloxacin with multivalent cation-containing products may reduce the
bioavailability of ciprofloxacin by 90%. Administer ciprofloxacin at least 2 hours
before or 6 hours after using these products. Use alternatives if available.

ferrous sulfate
ferrous sulfate decreases effects of ciprofloxacin by inhibition of GI absorption.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor. Coadministration of
ciprofloxacin with multivalent cation-containing products may reduce the
bioavailability of ciprofloxacin by 90%. Administer ciprofloxacin at least 2 hours
before or 6 hours after using these products. Use alternatives if available.

finerenone
ciprofloxacin will increase the level or effect of finerenone by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.
Monitor serum potassium during initiation and dosage adjustment of either
finererone or weak CYP3A4 inhibitors. Adjust finererone dosage as needed.

fingolimod
fingolimod and ciprofloxacin both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.

flecainide

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/cipro-xr-ciprofloxacin-342530 25/55



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Cipro, Cipro XR (ciprofloxacin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

ciprofloxacin and flecainide both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.
Ciprofloxacin elicits minimal effects on QT interval. Caution if used in combination
with other drugs known to affect QT interval or in patients with other risk factors.

flibanserin
flibanserin will increase the level or effect of ciprofloxacin by P-glycoprotein
(MDR1) efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

fludrocortisone
fludrocortisone and ciprofloxacin both increase Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Coadministration of quinolone antibiotics and corticosteroids may
increase risk of tendon rupture.

fluoxetine
ciprofloxacin and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely.

flurbiprofen
flurbiprofen, ciprofloxacin. Other (see comment). Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.
Comment: Mechanism: unknown. Increased risk of CNS stimulation and seizures
with high doses of fluoroquinolones.

formoterol
ciprofloxacin and formoterol both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.
Combination may increase risk of QT prolongation; monitor electrolytes and ECG
changes

fostamatinib
fostamatinib will increase the level or effect of ciprofloxacin by P-glycoprotein
(MDR1) efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor. Concomitant use of fostamatinib
may increase concentrations of P-gp substrates. Monitor for toxicities of the P-gp
substrate drug that may require dosage reduction when given concurrently with
fostamatinib.

fostemsavir
ciprofloxacin and fostemsavir both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor. QTc
prolongation reported with higher than recommended doses of fostemsavir.

gemtuzumab
ciprofloxacin and gemtuzumab both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.

gepirone
gepirone and ciprofloxacin both increase QTc interval. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely.

gilteritinib
gilteritinib and ciprofloxacin both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.

glecaprevir/pibrentasvir
glecaprevir/pibrentasvir will increase the level or effect of ciprofloxacin by P-
glycoprotein (MDR1) efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

glimepiride

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/cipro-xr-ciprofloxacin-342530 26/55



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Cipro, Cipro XR (ciprofloxacin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

ciprofloxacin increases effects of glimepiride by pharmacodynamic synergism. Use
Caution/Monitor. Hyper and hypoglycemia have been reported in patients treated
concomitantly with quinolones and antidiabetic agents. Careful monitoring of blood
glucose is recommended.

glipizide
ciprofloxacin increases effects of glipizide by pharmacodynamic synergism. Use
Caution/Monitor. Hyper and hypoglycemia have been reported in patients treated
concomitantly with quinolones and antidiabetic agents. Careful monitoring of blood
glucose is recommended.

glyburide
ciprofloxacin increases effects of glyburide by pharmacodynamic synergism. Use
Caution/Monitor. Hyper and hypoglycemia have been reported in patients treated
concomitantly with quinolones and antidiabetic agents. Careful monitoring of blood
glucose is recommended.

goserelin
goserelin increases toxicity of ciprofloxacin by QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.
Increases risk of torsades de pointes.

granisetron
granisetron and ciprofloxacin both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.

haloperidol
ciprofloxacin and haloperidol both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.
Ciprofloxacin elicits minimal effects on QT interval. Caution if used in combination
with other drugs known to affect QT interval or in patients with other risk factors.

histrelin
histrelin increases toxicity of ciprofloxacin by QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.
Increases risk of torsades de pointes.

hydrocortisone
hydrocortisone and ciprofloxacin both increase Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Coadministration of quinolone antibiotics and corticosteroids may
increase risk of tendon rupture.

hydrocortisone rectal
hydrocortisone rectal and ciprofloxacin both increase Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Coadministration of quinolone antibiotics and corticosteroids may
increase risk of tendon rupture.

hydroxyzine
hydroxyzine and ciprofloxacin both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.

ibuprofen
ibuprofen, ciprofloxacin. Other (see comment). Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.
Comment: Mechanism: unknown. Increased risk of CNS stimulation and seizures
with high doses of fluoroquinolones.

ibuprofen IV

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/cipro-xr-ciprofloxacin-342530 27/55



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Cipro, Cipro XR (ciprofloxacin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

ibuprofen IV, ciprofloxacin. Other (see comment). Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.
Comment: Mechanism: unknown. Increased risk of CNS stimulation and seizures
with high doses of fluoroquinolones.

ibutilide
ciprofloxacin and ibutilide both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.
Ciprofloxacin elicits minimal effects on QT interval. Caution if used in combination
with other drugs known to affect QT interval or in patients with other risk factors.

ifosfamide
ciprofloxacin will decrease the level or effect of ifosfamide by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Use of a
CYP3A4 inhibitor may decrease metabolism of ifosfamide, potentially reducing
ifosfamide therapeutic effects.

indacaterol, inhaled
indacaterol, inhaled, ciprofloxacin. QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor. Drugs that are
known to prolong the QTc interval may have an increased the risk of ventricular
arrhythmias.

indomethacin
indomethacin, ciprofloxacin. Other (see comment). Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.
Comment: Mechanism: unknown. Increased risk of CNS stimulation and seizures
with high doses of fluoroquinolones.

insulin aspart
ciprofloxacin increases effects of insulin aspart by pharmacodynamic synergism.
Use Caution/Monitor. Hyper and hypoglycemia have been reported in patients
treated concomitantly with quinolones and antidiabetic agents. Careful monitoring
of blood glucose is recommended.

insulin icodec
ciprofloxacin, insulin icodec. Other (see comment). Use Caution/Monitor. Comment:
Quinolone antibiotics may cause either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia.
Concomitant use may require insulin dosage adjustment and increased glucose
monitoring.

insulin lispro
ciprofloxacin increases effects of insulin lispro by pharmacodynamic synergism. Use
Caution/Monitor. Hyper and hypoglycemia have been reported in patients treated
concomitantly with quinolones and antidiabetic agents. Careful monitoring of blood
glucose is recommended.

insulin regular human
ciprofloxacin increases effects of insulin regular human by pharmacodynamic
synergism. Use Caution/Monitor. Hyper and hypoglycemia have been reported in
patients treated concomitantly with quinolones and antidiabetic agents. Careful
monitoring of blood glucose is recommended.

iron dextran complex
iron dextran complex decreases levels of ciprofloxacin by inhibition of GI
absorption. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
Coadministration of ciprofloxacin with multivalent cation-containing products may

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/cipro-xr-ciprofloxacin-342530 28/55



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Cipro, Cipro XR (ciprofloxacin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

reduce the bioavailability of ciprofloxacin by 90%. Administer ciprofloxacin at least
2 hours before or 6 hours after using these products. Use alternatives if available.

isavuconazonium sulfate
ciprofloxacin will increase the level or effect of isavuconazonium sulfate by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

istradefylline
istradefylline will increase the level or effect of ciprofloxacin by P-glycoprotein
(MDR1) efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor. Istradefylline 40 mg/day increased
peak levels and AUC of P-gp substrates in clinical trials. Consider dose reduction of
sensitive P-gp substrates.

itraconazole
itraconazole and ciprofloxacin both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.

ivacaftor
ivacaftor increases levels of ciprofloxacin by P-glycoprotein (MDR1) efflux
transporter. Use Caution/Monitor. Ivacaftor and its M1 metabolite has the potential
to inhibit P-gp; may significantly increase systemic exposure to sensitive P-gp
substrates with a narrow therapeutic index.

ciprofloxacin increases levels of ivacaftor by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme
CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Monitor when coadministered with
weak CYP3A4 inhibitors .

ivosidenib
ciprofloxacin will increase the level or effect of ivosidenib by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
Coadministration with moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase ivosidenib plasma
concentrations, thus increasing the risk of QTc prolongation. Monitor for increased
risk of QTc interval prolongation.

ketoprofen
ketoprofen, ciprofloxacin. Other (see comment). Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.
Comment: Mechanism: unknown. Increased risk of CNS stimulation and seizures
with high doses of fluoroquinolones.

ketorolac
ketorolac, ciprofloxacin. Other (see comment). Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.
Comment: Mechanism: unknown. Increased risk of CNS stimulation and seizures
with high doses of fluoroquinolones.

lanthanum carbonate
lanthanum carbonate decreases levels of ciprofloxacin by cation binding in GI tract.
Use Caution/Monitor. Administer oral quinolone antibiotics at least 1 hr before or 4
hr after lanthanum. Interaction applies only to oral quinolones.

lemborexant
ciprofloxacin will increase the level or effect of lemborexant by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/cipro-xr-ciprofloxacin-342530 29/55



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Cipro, Cipro XR (ciprofloxacin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Lower nightly dose of lemborexant recommended if coadministered with weak
CYP3A4 inhibitors. See drug monograph for specific dosage modification.

lenvatinib
ciprofloxacin and lenvatinib both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.
Lenvatinib prescribing information recommends monitoring ECG closely when
coadministered with QT prolonging drugs.

leuprolide
leuprolide increases toxicity of ciprofloxacin by QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.
Increases risk of torsades de pointes.

levalbuterol
ciprofloxacin and levalbuterol both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.
Combination may increase risk of QT prolongation; monitor electrolytes and ECG
changes

levonorgestrel oral/ethinylestradiol/ferrous bisglycinate
ciprofloxacin will decrease the level or effect of levonorgestrel
oral/ethinylestradiol/ferrous bisglycinate by altering intestinal flora. Applies only to
oral forms of hormone. Low risk of contraceptive failure. Use Caution/Monitor.
Antibiotics may decrease hormonal contraceptive efficacy.

lidocaine
ciprofloxacin will increase the level or effect of lidocaine by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP1A2 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Lidocaine plasma levels may be
elevated, increasing the risk of toxicity. Monitor cardiac function and symptoms of
toxicity.

lithium
lithium and ciprofloxacin both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.

lumefantrine
ciprofloxacin and lumefantrine both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.
Ciprofloxacin elicits minimal effects on QT interval. Caution if used in combination
with other drugs known to affect QT interval or in patients with other risk factors.

magnesium chloride
magnesium chloride decreases levels of ciprofloxacin by inhibition of GI absorption.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor. Coadministration of
ciprofloxacin with multivalent cation-containing products may reduce the
bioavailability of ciprofloxacin by 90%. Administer ciprofloxacin at least 2 hours
before or 6 hours after using these products. Use alternatives if available.

magnesium citrate
magnesium citrate decreases levels of ciprofloxacin by inhibition of GI absorption.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor. Coadministration of
ciprofloxacin with multivalent cation-containing products may reduce the
bioavailability of ciprofloxacin by 90%. Administer ciprofloxacin at least 2 hours
before or 6 hours after using these products. Use alternatives if available.

magnesium hydroxide

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/cipro-xr-ciprofloxacin-342530 30/55



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Cipro, Cipro XR (ciprofloxacin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

magnesium hydroxide decreases levels of ciprofloxacin by inhibition of GI
absorption. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
Coadministration of ciprofloxacin with multivalent cation-containing products may
reduce the bioavailability of ciprofloxacin by 90%. Administer ciprofloxacin at least
2 hours before or 6 hours after using these products. Use alternatives if available.

magnesium oxide
magnesium oxide decreases levels of ciprofloxacin by inhibition of GI absorption.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor. Separate by 2 hours.

magnesium sulfate
magnesium sulfate decreases levels of ciprofloxacin by inhibition of GI absorption.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor. Coadministration of
ciprofloxacin with multivalent cation-containing products may reduce the
bioavailability of ciprofloxacin by 90%. Administer ciprofloxacin at least 2 hours
before or 6 hours after using these products. Use alternatives if available.

magnesium supplement
magnesium supplement will decrease the level or effect of ciprofloxacin by Other
(see comment). Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Formation of an insoluble complex
reduces absorption of the drug through intestinal tract; administer magnesium 2hr
before the quinolone or 6hr after the quinolone

mavacamten
ciprofloxacin increases levels of mavacamten by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme
CYP3A4 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Modify mavacamten dose if
coadministered with moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors.

mavorixafor
mavorixafor and ciprofloxacin both increase QTc interval. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely. Mavorixafor causes concentration-dependent QTc prolongation. Monitor
QTc during treatment in patients with risk factors for QTc prolongation (eg,
coadministered medications that increase mavorixafor exposure or other drugs with
a high risk to prolong the QTc interval). Mavorixafor dose reduction or
discontinuation may be required.

mavorixafor will increase the level or effect of ciprofloxacin by P-glycoprotein
(MDR1) efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor. Caution if mavorixafor (a P-gp
inhibitor) is coadministered with a sensitive P-gp substrate where minimal
substrate concentration changes may lead to serious adverse effects.

meclofenamate
meclofenamate, ciprofloxacin. Other (see comment). Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely. Comment: Mechanism: unknown. Increased risk of CNS stimulation and
seizures with high doses of fluoroquinolones.

mefenamic acid
mefenamic acid, ciprofloxacin. Other (see comment). Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely. Comment: Mechanism: unknown. Increased risk of CNS stimulation and
seizures with high doses of fluoroquinolones.

mefloquine

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/cipro-xr-ciprofloxacin-342530 31/55



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Cipro, Cipro XR (ciprofloxacin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

ciprofloxacin and mefloquine both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.
Ciprofloxacin elicits minimal effects on QT interval. Caution if used in combination
with other drugs known to affect QT interval or in patients with other risk factors.

melatonin
ciprofloxacin will increase the level or effect of melatonin by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP1A2 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Monitor melatonin effects if
coadministered with moderate CYP1A2 inhibitors

meloxicam
meloxicam, ciprofloxacin. Other (see comment). Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.
Comment: Mechanism: unknown. Increased risk of CNS stimulation and seizures
with high doses of fluoroquinolones.

mestranol
ciprofloxacin will decrease the level or effect of mestranol by altering intestinal
flora. Applies only to oral forms of hormone. Low risk of contraceptive failure. Use
Caution/Monitor.

metformin
ciprofloxacin, metformin. Other (see comment). Use Caution/Monitor. Comment:
Quinolone antibiotics may cause either hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia;
concomitant use may require increased glucose monitoring.

methadone
ciprofloxacin and methadone both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.
Ciprofloxacin elicits minimal effects on QT interval. Caution if used in combination
with other drugs known to affect QT interval or in patients with other risk factors.

methotrexate
ciprofloxacin will increase the level or effect of methotrexate by Other (see
comment). Use Caution/Monitor. Renal tubular transport of methotrexate may be
inhibited by coadministration of ciprofloxacin, potentially leading to increased
methotrexate plasma levels and toxicity.

methylprednisolone
methylprednisolone and ciprofloxacin both increase Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Coadministration of quinolone antibiotics and corticosteroids may
increase risk of tendon rupture.

mexiletine
ciprofloxacin will increase the level or effect of mexiletine by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP1A2 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Mexiletine concentrations may
be elevated and may produce an increase in therapeutic and adverse reactions.

midazolam intranasal
ciprofloxacin will increase the level or effect of midazolam intranasal by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
Coadministration of mild CYP3A4 inhibitors with midazolam intranasal may cause
higher midazolam systemic exposure, which may prolong sedation.

mifepristone

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/cipro-xr-ciprofloxacin-342530 32/55



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Cipro, Cipro XR (ciprofloxacin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

ciprofloxacin will increase the level or effect of mifepristone by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.
Use alternatives if available.

miglitol
ciprofloxacin increases effects of miglitol by pharmacodynamic synergism. Use
Caution/Monitor. Hyper and hypoglycemia have been reported in patients treated
concomitantly with quinolones and antidiabetic agents. Careful monitoring of blood
glucose is recommended.

moxifloxacin
ciprofloxacin and moxifloxacin both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.
Ciprofloxacin elicits minimal effects on QT interval. Caution if used in combination
with other drugs known to affect QT interval or in patients with other risk factors.

nabumetone
nabumetone, ciprofloxacin. Other (see comment). Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.
Comment: Mechanism: unknown. Increased risk of CNS stimulation and seizures
with high doses of fluoroquinolones.

naproxen
naproxen, ciprofloxacin. Other (see comment). Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.
Comment: Mechanism: unknown. Increased risk of CNS stimulation and seizures
with high doses of fluoroquinolones.

nateglinide
ciprofloxacin increases effects of nateglinide by pharmacodynamic synergism. Use
Caution/Monitor. Hyper and hypoglycemia have been reported in patients treated
concomitantly with quinolones and antidiabetic agents. Careful monitoring of blood
glucose is recommended.

nilotinib
ciprofloxacin and nilotinib both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.
Ciprofloxacin elicits minimal effects on QT interval. Caution if used in combination
with other drugs known to affect QT interval or in patients with other risk factors.

olanzapine
ciprofloxacin will increase the level or effect of olanzapine by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP1A2 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Olanzapine plasma
concentrations may be elevated, increasing the risk of adverse reactions such as
orthostatic hypotension or sedation. It is important to use caution and observe
patient and adjust the olanzapine dosage as needed.

olodaterol inhaled
ciprofloxacin and olodaterol inhaled both increase QTc interval. Use
Caution/Monitor. Drugs that prolong the QTc interval and may potentiate the effects
of beta2 agonists on the cardiovascular system; increased risk of ventricular
arrhythmias

omeprazole
omeprazole will decrease the level or effect of ciprofloxacin by unknown
mechanism. Use Caution/Monitor. Absorption of the ciprofloxacin ER tablet was

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/cipro-xr-ciprofloxacin-342530 33/55



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Cipro, Cipro XR (ciprofloxacin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

slightly diminished (20%) when coadministered with omeprazole.

osilodrostat
osilodrostat and ciprofloxacin both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.

osimertinib
osimertinib and ciprofloxacin both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.
Conduct periodic monitoring with ECGs and electrolytes in patients taking drugs
known to prolong the QTc interval.

oxaliplatin
oxaliplatin will increase the level or effect of ciprofloxacin by Other (see comment).
Use Caution/Monitor. Monitor for ECG changes if therapy is initiated in patients with
drugs known to prolong QT interval.

oxaprozin
oxaprozin, ciprofloxacin. Other (see comment). Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.
Comment: Mechanism unknown. Increased risk of CNS stimulation and seizures
with high doses of fluoroquinolones.

ozanimod
ozanimod and ciprofloxacin both increase QTc interval. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely. The potential additive effects on heart rate, treatment with ozanimod
should generally not be initiated in patients who are concurrently treated with QT
prolonging drugs with known arrhythmogenic properties.

paliperidone
ciprofloxacin and paliperidone both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.
Ciprofloxacin elicits minimal effects on QT interval. Caution if used in combination
with other drugs known to affect QT interval or in patients with other risk factors.

pasireotide
ciprofloxacin and pasireotide both increase QTc interval. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely.

patiromer
patiromer will decrease the level or effect of ciprofloxacin by drug binding in GI
tract. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Separate administration by at least 3 hr from
patiromer

pentamidine
ciprofloxacin and pentamidine both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.
Ciprofloxacin elicits minimal effects on QT interval. Caution if used in combination
with other drugs known to affect QT interval or in patients with other risk factors.

pentoxifylline
ciprofloxacin will increase the level or effect of pentoxifylline by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP1A2 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

phenytoin
ciprofloxacin decreases effects of phenytoin by unknown mechanism. Use
Caution/Monitor. Ciprofloxacin has been reported to both increase and decrease

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/cipro-xr-ciprofloxacin-342530 34/55



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Cipro, Cipro XR (ciprofloxacin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

phenytoin concentrations. Additional clinical evidence is needed however;
phenytoin serum concentrations should be monitored in patients.

pimozide
ciprofloxacin and pimozide both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.
Ciprofloxacin elicits minimal effects on QT interval. Caution if used in combination
with other drugs known to affect QT interval or in patients with other risk factors.

pioglitazone
ciprofloxacin increases effects of pioglitazone by pharmacodynamic synergism. Use
Caution/Monitor. Hyper and hypoglycemia have been reported in patients treated
concomitantly with quinolones and antidiabetic agents. Careful monitoring of blood
glucose is recommended.

piroxicam
piroxicam, ciprofloxacin. Other (see comment). Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.
Comment: Mechanism: unknown. Increased risk of CNS stimulation and seizures
with high doses of fluoroquinolones.

pivekimab sunirine
ciprofloxacin increases levels of pivekimab sunirine by affecting hepatic/intestinal
enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Concomitant use
may increase exposure to unconjugated FGN849, the cytotoxic payload of
pivekimab sunirin. Monitor closely for adverse reactions.

polysaccharide iron
polysaccharide iron decreases levels of ciprofloxacin by inhibition of GI absorption.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor. Coadministration of
ciprofloxacin with multivalent cation-containing products may reduce the
bioavailability of ciprofloxacin by 90%. Administer ciprofloxacin at least 2 hours
before or 6 hours after using these products. Use alternatives if available.

ponatinib
ponatinib increases levels of ciprofloxacin by P-glycoprotein (MDR1) efflux
transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

prednisolone
prednisolone and ciprofloxacin both increase Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Coadministration of quinolone antibiotics and corticosteroids may
increase risk of tendon rupture.

prednisone
prednisone and ciprofloxacin both increase Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Coadministration of quinolone antibiotics and corticosteroids may
increase risk of tendon rupture.

pretomanid
pretomanid will increase the level or effect of ciprofloxacin by Other (see comment).
Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. In vitro studies demonstrated that pretomanid
significantly inhibits OAT3; monitor for increased adverse effects and consider
dosage reduction for OAT3 substrates.

primaquine

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/cipro-xr-ciprofloxacin-342530 35/55



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Cipro, Cipro XR (ciprofloxacin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

primaquine and ciprofloxacin both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.

probenecid
probenecid will increase the level or effect of ciprofloxacin by Other (see comment).
Use Caution/Monitor. Probenecid interferes with renal tubular secretion of
ciprofloxacin and produces an increase in the ciprofloxacin levels in the serum

procainamide
ciprofloxacin and procainamide both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.
Ciprofloxacin elicits minimal effects on QT interval. Caution if used in combination
with other drugs known to affect QT interval or in patients with other risk factors.

quetiapine
quetiapine, ciprofloxacin. Either increases toxicity of the other by QTc interval. Use
Caution/Monitor. Avoid use with drugs that prolong QT and in patients with risk
factors for prolonged QT interval. Postmarketing cases show QT prolongation with
overdose in patients with concomitant illness or with drugs known to cause
electrolyte imbalance or prolong QT.

quinapril
quinapril will decrease the level or effect of ciprofloxacin by Other (see comment).
Use Caution/Monitor. Separate doses of quinapril and oral quinolones by 2 hr;
interaction likely due to chelation

quinidine
ciprofloxacin and quinidine both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.
Ciprofloxacin elicits minimal effects on QT interval. Caution if used in combination
with other drugs known to affect QT interval or in patients with other risk factors.

quinine
ciprofloxacin and quinine both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.
Ciprofloxacin elicits minimal effects on QT interval. Caution if used in combination
with other drugs known to affect QT interval or in patients with other risk factors.

quizartinib
quizartinib, ciprofloxacin. Either increases effects of the other by QTc interval.
Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Monitor patients more frequently with ECG if
coadministered with QT prolonging drugs.

ramelteon
ciprofloxacin will increase the level or effect of ramelteon by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP1A2 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Ciprofloxacin may decrease the
metabolism of ramelteon; if ciprofloxacin is coadministered with ramelteon, monitor
the patient closely for toxicity.

ranolazine
ciprofloxacin and ranolazine both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.
Ciprofloxacin elicits minimal effects on QT interval. Caution if used in combination
with other drugs known to affect QT interval or in patients with other risk factors.

repaglinide
ciprofloxacin increases effects of repaglinide by pharmacodynamic synergism. Use
Caution/Monitor. Hyper and hypoglycemia have been reported in patients treated

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/cipro-xr-ciprofloxacin-342530 36/55



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Cipro, Cipro XR (ciprofloxacin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

concomitantly with quinolones and antidiabetic agents. Careful monitoring of blood
glucose is recommended.

rilpivirine
rilpivirine increases toxicity of ciprofloxacin by QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.
Rilpivirine should be used with caution when co-administered with a drug with a
known risk of Torsades de Pointes.

riluzole
ciprofloxacin will increase the level or effect of riluzole by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP1A2 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

ropinirole
ciprofloxacin will increase the level or effect of ropinirole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP1A2 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Ciprofloxacin may decrease the
metabolism of ropinirole; monitor for increased effects of ropinirole.

ropivacaine
ciprofloxacin will increase the level or effect of ropivacaine by Mechanism:
decreasing metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Monitor for increased ropivacaine
toxicity.

rosiglitazone
ciprofloxacin increases effects of rosiglitazone by pharmacodynamic synergism. Use
Caution/Monitor. Hyper and hypoglycemia have been reported in patients treated
concomitantly with quinolones and antidiabetic agents. Careful monitoring of blood
glucose is recommended.

sarecycline
sarecycline will increase the level or effect of ciprofloxacin by P-glycoprotein
(MDR1) efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor. Monitor for toxicities of P-gp
substrates that may require dosage reduction when coadministered with P-gp
inhibitors.

saxagliptin
ciprofloxacin increases effects of saxagliptin by pharmacodynamic synergism. Use
Caution/Monitor. Hyper and hypoglycemia have been reported in patients treated
concomitantly with quinolones and antidiabetic agents. Careful monitoring of blood
glucose is recommended.

sebetralstat
ciprofloxacin increases levels of sebetralstat by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme
CYP3A4 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Reduce sebetralstat dose if
coadministered with moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors.

selpercatinib
selpercatinib increases toxicity of ciprofloxacin by QTc interval. Use
Caution/Monitor.

sertraline
sertraline and ciprofloxacin both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.

sevabertinib

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/cipro-xr-ciprofloxacin-342530 37/55



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Cipro, Cipro XR (ciprofloxacin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

ciprofloxacin increases levels of sevabertinib by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme
CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Monitor for increased sevabertinib-
associated adverse effects if coadministered with moderate CYP3A inhibitors.

sevelamer
sevelamer decreases levels of ciprofloxacin by inhibition of GI absorption. Applies
only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor. Administer oral quinolones
at least 1 hour before or 3 hours after sevelamer. .

sitagliptin
ciprofloxacin increases effects of sitagliptin by pharmacodynamic synergism. Use
Caution/Monitor. Hyper and hypoglycemia have been reported in patients treated
concomitantly with quinolones and antidiabetic agents. Careful monitoring of blood
glucose is recommended.

sodium bicarbonate
sodium bicarbonate decreases levels of ciprofloxacin by inhibition of GI absorption.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor. A large proportion of
ciprofloxacin is normally excreted unchanged in the urine. When urinary alkalinizing
agents such as sodium bicarbonate are used concomitantly, the solubility of
ciprofloxacin can be decreased because of alkaline urine. Patients should be
monitored for crystalluria and nephrotoxicity.

sodium citrate/citric acid
sodium citrate/citric acid decreases levels of ciprofloxacin by inhibition of GI
absorption. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor. A large
proportion of ciprofloxacin is normally excreted unchanged in the urine. When
urinary alkalinizing agents such as sodium citrate are used concomitantly, the
solubility of ciprofloxacin can be decreased because of alkaline urine. Patients
should be monitored for crystalluria and nephrotoxicity.

sodium picosulfate/magnesium oxide/anhydrous citric acid
ciprofloxacin decreases effects of sodium picosulfate/magnesium oxide/anhydrous
citric acid by altering metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Coadministration with
antibiotics decreases efficacy by altering colonic bacterial flora needed to convert
sodium picosulfate to active drug.

sodium picosulfate/magnesium oxide/anhydrous citric acid decreases levels of
ciprofloxacin by cation binding in GI tract. Use Caution/Monitor. Take at least 2
hours before and not less than 6 hours after administration of sodium picosulfate,
magnesium oxide and anhydrous citric acid to avoid magnesium chelation.

sodium sulfate/?magnesium sulfate/potassium chloride
sodium sulfate/?magnesium sulfate/potassium chloride decreases levels of
ciprofloxacin by inhibition of GI absorption. Applies only to oral form of both agents.
Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Administer fluoroquinolones at least 2 hr before
and no less than 6 hr after each dose to avoid chelation with magnesium. .

sodium sulfate/potassium sulfate/magnesium sulfate
sodium sulfate/potassium sulfate/magnesium sulfate decreases levels of
ciprofloxacin by inhibition of GI absorption. Applies only to oral form of both agents.

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/cipro-xr-ciprofloxacin-342530 38/55



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Cipro, Cipro XR (ciprofloxacin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Administer fluoroquinolones at least 2 hr before
and no less than 6 hr after each dose to avoid chelation with magnesium. .

solifenacin
solifenacin and ciprofloxacin both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.

sorafenib
sorafenib and ciprofloxacin both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.

sotalol
ciprofloxacin and sotalol both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.
Ciprofloxacin elicits minimal effects on QT interval. Caution if used in combination
with other drugs known to affect QT interval or in patients with other risk factors.

stiripentol
stiripentol will increase the level or effect of ciprofloxacin by P-glycoprotein (MDR1)
efflux transporter. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Consider reducing the dose of
P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrates, if adverse reactions are experienced when
administered concomitantly with stiripentol.

sucralfate
sucralfate decreases levels of ciprofloxacin by inhibition of GI absorption. Applies
only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor. The oral absorption of
ciprofloxacin may be significantly reduced by sucralfate secondary to chelation
within the GI tract. To help avoid interactions due to chelation, ciprofloxacin should
be taken 2 hours before or 6 hours after administration of sucralfate.

sulindac
sulindac, ciprofloxacin. Other (see comment). Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.
Comment: Mechanism: unknown. Increased risk of CNS stimulation and seizures
with high doses of fluoroquinolones.

sunitinib
ciprofloxacin and sunitinib both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.
Ciprofloxacin elicits minimal effects on QT interval. Caution if used in combination
with other drugs known to affect QT interval or in patients with other risk factors.

tacrolimus
tacrolimus and ciprofloxacin both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.

tasimelteon
ciprofloxacin will increase the level or effect of tasimelteon by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP1A2 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Avoid coadministration;
potentially large increase in tasimelteon exposure and greater risk of adverse
reactions with strong CYP1A2 inhibitors

telavancin
ciprofloxacin and telavancin both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.
Ciprofloxacin elicits minimal effects on QT interval. Caution if used in combination
with other drugs known to affect QT interval or in patients with other risk factors.

terbinafine

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/cipro-xr-ciprofloxacin-342530 39/55



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Cipro, Cipro XR (ciprofloxacin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

ciprofloxacin will increase the level or effect of terbinafine by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP1A2 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

tetrabenazine
ciprofloxacin and tetrabenazine both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.
Ciprofloxacin elicits minimal effects on QT interval. Caution if used in combination
with other drugs known to affect QT interval or in patients with other risk factors.

thioridazine
ciprofloxacin and thioridazine both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.
Ciprofloxacin elicits minimal effects on QT interval. Caution if used in combination
with other drugs known to affect QT interval or in patients with other risk factors.

tinidazole
ciprofloxacin will increase the level or effect of tinidazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

tobramycin inhaled
tobramycin inhaled and ciprofloxacin both increase nephrotoxicity and/or ototoxicity.
Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Avoid concurrent or sequential use to decrease
risk for ototoxicity

tolmetin
tolmetin, ciprofloxacin. Other (see comment). Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.
Comment: Mechanism: unknown. Increased risk of CNS stimulation and seizures
with high doses of fluoroquinolones.

triamcinolone acetonide injectable suspension
triamcinolone acetonide injectable suspension and ciprofloxacin both increase Other
(see comment). Use Caution/Monitor. Coadministration of quinolone antibiotics and
corticosteroids may increase risk of tendon rupture.

trimagnesium citrate anhydrous
trimagnesium citrate anhydrous decreases levels of ciprofloxacin by inhibition of GI
absorption. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
Multivalent cation-containing products may reduce bioavailability of quinolones;
administer quinolone at least 2 hr before or 6 hr after magnesium; use alternatives
if available.

triptorelin
triptorelin increases toxicity of ciprofloxacin by QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.
Increases risk of torsades de pointes.

tucatinib
tucatinib will increase the level or effect of ciprofloxacin by P-glycoprotein (MDR1)
efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor. Consider reducing the dosage of P-gp
substrates, where minimal concentration changes may lead to serious or life-
threatening toxicities.

vadadustat
vadadustat will increase the level or effect of ciprofloxacin by Other (see comment).
Use Caution/Monitor. Vadadustat may increase exposure of OAT3 substrates.

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/cipro-xr-ciprofloxacin-342530 40/55



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Cipro, Cipro XR (ciprofloxacin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Monitor for signs of adverse effect of OAT3 substrate and reduce substrate dose in
accordance with their product labeling.

valbenazine
valbenazine and ciprofloxacin both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.

vildagliptin
ciprofloxacin increases effects of vildagliptin by pharmacodynamic synergism. Use
Caution/Monitor. Hyper and hypoglycemia have been reported in patients treated
concomitantly with quinolones and antidiabetic agents. Careful monitoring of blood
glucose is recommended.

voclosporin
voclosporin, ciprofloxacin. Either increases effects of the other by QTc interval. Use
Caution/Monitor.

vorinostat
vorinostat and ciprofloxacin both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.

warfarin
ciprofloxacin increases effects of warfarin by unspecified interaction mechanism.
Use Caution/Monitor.

xanomeline/trospium
ciprofloxacin, xanomeline/trospium. Either increases levels of the other by
decreasing elimination. Use Caution/Monitor. Coadministration of trospium with
other drugs eliminated by active tubular secretion may increase plasma
concentrations of trospium and/or the concomitantly used drug owing to
competition for this elimination pathway. Monitor for increased frequency and/or
severity of adverse reactions.

ziftomenib
ciprofloxacin increases levels of ziftomenib by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme
CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Monitor ziftomenib more frequently for
adverse effects if coadministered with a strong or moderate CYP3A inhibitor.
Coadministration increases ziftomenib systemic exposure, which may increase risk
of adverse reactions such as QT prolongation.

zinc
zinc will decrease the level or effect of ciprofloxacin by cation binding in GI tract.
Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Ciprofloxacin should be administered 2 hr before
or 6 hr after zinc salts.

ziprasidone
ciprofloxacin and ziprasidone both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.
Ciprofloxacin elicits minimal effects on QT interval. Caution if used in combination
with other drugs known to affect QT interval or in patients with other risk factors.

zolpidem
ciprofloxacin will increase the level or effect of zolpidem by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP1A2 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/cipro-xr-ciprofloxacin-342530 41/55



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Cipro, Cipro XR (ciprofloxacin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

ciprofloxacin will increase the level or effect of zolpidem by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.

Minor (33)

acebutolol
ciprofloxacin increases levels of acebutolol by decreasing metabolism.
Minor/Significance Unknown. May also rarely decrease beta blocker levels.

alprazolam
ciprofloxacin increases levels of alprazolam by decreasing metabolism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

balsalazide
ciprofloxacin will decrease the level or effect of balsalazide by altering intestinal
flora. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Minor/Significance Unknown.

carvedilol
ciprofloxacin increases levels of carvedilol by decreasing metabolism.
Minor/Significance Unknown. May also rarely decrease beta blocker levels.

chlordiazepoxide
ciprofloxacin increases levels of chlordiazepoxide by decreasing metabolism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

clonazepam
ciprofloxacin increases levels of clonazepam by decreasing metabolism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

clorazepate
ciprofloxacin increases levels of clorazepate by decreasing metabolism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

diazepam
ciprofloxacin increases levels of diazepam by decreasing metabolism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

digoxin
ciprofloxacin will increase the level or effect of digoxin by altering intestinal flora.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Minor/Significance Unknown.

esmolol
ciprofloxacin increases levels of esmolol by decreasing metabolism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

estazolam
ciprofloxacin increases levels of estazolam by decreasing metabolism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

fennel
fennel decreases levels of ciprofloxacin by inhibition of GI absorption. Applies only
to oral form of both agents. Minor/Significance Unknown. Fennel may decrease the

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/cipro-xr-ciprofloxacin-342530 42/55



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Cipro, Cipro XR (ciprofloxacin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

amount of ciprofloxacin the body absorbs. Take fennel at least 1 hour after
ciprofloxacin administration.

flurazepam
ciprofloxacin increases levels of flurazepam by decreasing metabolism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

foscarnet
ciprofloxacin, foscarnet. Mechanism: unknown. Minor/Significance Unknown. Based
on 2 case reports it was reported that there is a potential for an increased risk of
seizures.

frovatriptan
ciprofloxacin will increase the level or effect of frovatriptan by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP1A2 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.

green tea
ciprofloxacin increases levels of green tea by decreasing elimination.
Minor/Significance Unknown. (Caffeine). Some quinolones can inhibit the hepatic
clearance of caffeine. Caution is advised.

isotretinoin
ciprofloxacin, isotretinoin. Mechanism: pharmacodynamic synergism.
Minor/Significance Unknown. Both drugs have increased risk of phototoxicity, use
caution with concomitant use.

metoprolol
ciprofloxacin increases levels of metoprolol by decreasing metabolism.
Minor/Significance Unknown. Ciprofloxacin may increase metoprolol plasma
concentrations however mechanism is unknown. Further clinical evidence is needed
but it may be appropriate to monitor patients during concomitant therapy with
ciprofloxacin.

midazolam
ciprofloxacin increases levels of midazolam by decreasing metabolism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

nadolol
ciprofloxacin increases levels of nadolol by decreasing metabolism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

nebivolol
ciprofloxacin increases levels of nebivolol by decreasing metabolism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

pindolol
ciprofloxacin increases levels of pindolol by decreasing metabolism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

propranolol
ciprofloxacin increases levels of propranolol by decreasing metabolism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/cipro-xr-ciprofloxacin-342530 43/55



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Cipro, Cipro XR (ciprofloxacin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

pyridoxine
ciprofloxacin will decrease the level or effect of pyridoxine by altering intestinal
flora. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Minor/Significance Unknown.

quazepam
ciprofloxacin increases levels of quazepam by decreasing metabolism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

quercetin
quercetin decreases effects of ciprofloxacin by pharmacodynamic antagonism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

ruxolitinib
ciprofloxacin will increase the level or effect of ruxolitinib by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.

ruxolitinib topical
ciprofloxacin will increase the level or effect of ruxolitinib topical by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.

temazepam
ciprofloxacin increases levels of temazepam by decreasing metabolism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

thiamine
ciprofloxacin will decrease the level or effect of thiamine by altering intestinal flora.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Minor/Significance Unknown.

timolol
ciprofloxacin increases levels of timolol by decreasing metabolism.
Minor/Significance Unknown. May also rarely decrease beta blocker levels.

triazolam
ciprofloxacin increases levels of triazolam by decreasing metabolism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

vitamin K1 (phytonadione)
ciprofloxacin will decrease the level or effect of vitamin K1 (phytonadione) by
altering intestinal flora. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Minor/Significance
Unknown.

Adverse Effects

>10%

Pediatric

Gastrointestinal (15%)

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/cipro-xr-ciprofloxacin-342530 44/55



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Cipro, Cipro XR (ciprofloxacin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

1-10%

Adults

Nausea (2.5%)

Diarrhea (1.6%)

Liver function tests abnormal (1.3%)

Vomiting (1%)

Rash (1%)

Pediatric

Diarrhea (4.8%)

Vomiting (4.8%)

Abdominal pain (3.3%)

Neurologic (ie, dizziness, nervousness, insomnia, somnolence) (3%)

Dyspepsia (2.7%)

Nausea (2.7%)

Fever (2.1%)

Asthma (1.8%)

Rash (1.8%)

<1%

Body as a whole

Headache

Abdominal pain/discomfort

Pain

Cardiovascular

Syncope

Angina pectoris

Myocardial infarction

Cardiopulmonary arrest

Tachycardia

Hypotension

Central nervous system

Restlessness

Dizziness

Insomnia

Nightmares

Hallucinations

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/cipro-xr-ciprofloxacin-342530 45/55



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Cipro, Cipro XR (ciprofloxacin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Paranoia

Psychosis (toxic)

Manic reaction

Irritability

Tremor

Ataxia

Seizures (including status epilepticus)

Malaise

Anorexia

Phobia

Depersonalization

Depression (potentially culminating in self-injurious behavior [eg, suicidal
ideations/thoughts and attempted or completed suicide])

Paresthesia

Abnormal gait

Migraine

Gastrointestinal

Intestinal perforation

Gastrointestinal bleeding

Cholestatic jaundice

Hepatitis

Pancreatitis

Hemic/lymphatic

Petechia

Metabolic/nutritional

Hyperglycemia

Hypoglycemia

Musculoskeletal

Arthralgia

Joint Stiffness

Muscle Weakness

Renal/urogenital

Interstitial nephritis

Renal failure

Respiratory

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/cipro-xr-ciprofloxacin-342530 46/55



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Cipro, Cipro XR (ciprofloxacin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Dyspnea

Laryngeal edema

Hemoptysis

Bronchospasm

Skin/hypersensitivity

Anaphylactic Reactions including life-threatening anaphylactic shock

Erythema multiforme/Stevens-Johnson

Syndrome

Exfoliative dermatitis

Toxic epidermal necrolysis

Pruritus

Urticaria

Photosensitivity/phototoxicity reaction

Flushing

Fever

Angioedema

Erythema nodosum

Sweating

Special senses

Blurred vision

Disturbed vision (chromatopsia and photopsia)

Decreased visual acuity

Diplopia

Tinnitus

Hearing loss

Bad taste

Postmarketing Reports

Cardiovascular: QT prolongation, Torsade de pointes, vasculitis and ventricular
arrhythmia

Central nervous system: Hypertonia, myasthenia, exacerbation of myasthenia gravis,
peripheral neuropathy, polyneuropathy, twitching

Eye disorders: Nystagmus

Gastrointestinal: Pseudomembranous colitis

Hemic/lymphatic: Pancytopenia (life threatening or fatal outcome), methemoglobinemia

Hepatobiliary: Hepatic failure (including fatal cases)

Infections and infestations: Candidiasis (oral, gastrointestinal, vaginal)

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/cipro-xr-ciprofloxacin-342530 47/55



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Cipro, Cipro XR (ciprofloxacin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Investigations: Prothrombin time prolongation or decrease, cholesterol elevation (serum),
potassium elevation (serum)

Musculoskeletal: Myalgia, myoclonus, tendinitis, tendon rupture

Psychiatric disorders: Agitation, confusion, delirium

Skin/hypersensitivity: Acute generalize exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP), fixed eruption,
serum sickness-like reaction

Special senses: Anosmia, hyperesthesia, hypesthesia, taste loss

Warnings

Black Box Warnings

Serious adverse effects

Fluoroquinolones have been associated with disabling and potentially irreversible
serious adverse reactions that have occurred together including: tendinitis and
tendon rupture, peripheral neuropathy, and central nervous system (CNS) effects

Discontinue treatment immediately and avoid use of systemic fluoroquinolones in
patients who experience any of these serious adverse reactions

May exacerbate muscle weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis; avoid
fluoroquinolones with known history of myasthenia gravis

Because the risk of these serious side effects generally outweighs the benefits for
patients with acute bacterial sinusitis, acute exacerbation of chronic bronchitis, and
uncomplicated UTIs, that fluoroquinolones should be reserved for use in patients with
these conditions who have no alternative treatment options

Contraindications

Documented hypersensitivity; concurrent tizanidine administration

Cautions

Use in pregnancy, though generally contraindicated for all quinolones, is allowed for life-
threatening situations; limited data from use of ciprofloxacin in pregnancy show no
higher rate of birth defects than background

Do not use oral suspension in nasogastric tube; to prepare, add microcapsules to diluent

Commonly seen adverse reactions include tendinitis, tendon rupture, arthralgia, myalgia,
peripheral neuropathy, and central nervous system effects (hallucinations, anxiety,
depression, insomnia, severe headaches, and confusion); these reactions can occur within
hours to weeks after starting therapy, including in patients of any age or without pre-
existing risk factors; discontinue therapy immediately at first signs or symptoms of any
serious adverse reaction; in addition, avoid use of fluoroquinolones, in patients who have
experienced any serious adverse reactions associated with fluoroquinolones (see Black
Box Warnings)

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/cipro-xr-ciprofloxacin-342530 48/55



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Cipro, Cipro XR (ciprofloxacin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Peripheral neuropathy: sensory or sensorimotor axonal polyneuropathy affecting small
and/or large axons resulting in paresthesias, hypoesthesias, dysesthesias, and weakness
reported; peripheral neuropathy may occur rapidly after initiating and may potentially
become permanent

In prolonged therapy, perform periodic evaluations of organ system functions (eg, renal,
hepatic, hematopoietic); adjust dose in renal impairment; superinfections may occur with
prolonged or repeated antibiotic therapy; discontinue use immediately if signs and
symptoms of hepatitis occur

Not first drug of choice in pediatrics (except in anthrax), because of increased incidence
of adverse events in comparison with control subjects, including arthropathy; no data
exist on dosing for pediatric patients with renal impairment (ie, CrCl <50 mL/min)

Crystalluria may occur; urine alkalinity may increase risk; ensure adequate hydration
during therapy

Serious and sometimes fatal hypoglycemia reported with fluoroquinolone use;
hyperglycemia also reported; monitor patients closely for signs/symptoms of abnormal
glucose levels; if hypoglycemic reaction occurs in a patient being treated discontinue
therapy and initiate appropriate treatment immediately

Moderate-to-severe phototoxicity reactions reported; avoid excessive sunlight and take
precautions to limit exposure; discontinue use if phototoxicity occurs

Acute onset of retinal detachment increased 4.5-fold with oral fluoroquinolones in a
single case-controlled study - JAMA 2012;307(13):1414-1419; another study disputes
these findings (relative risk, 1.29) - JAMA 2013;310(20):2184-2190

Clostridium difficile-associated diarrhea (CDAD) reported; if CDAD suspected or
confirmed, ongoing antibiotic use not directed against C. difficile may need to be
discontinued; appropriate fluid and electrolyte management, protein supplementation,
antibiotic treatment of C. difficile, and surgical evaluation should be instituted as
clinically indicated

Prescribing antibiotics in absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection or
a prophylactic indication is unlikely to provide benefit to patient and increases risk of
development of drug-resistant bacteria

Fluoroquinolones may exacerbate muscle weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis;
postmarketing serious adverse reactions, including deaths and requirement for
ventilatory support, have been associated with fluoroquinolone use in patients with
myasthenia gravis; avoid in patients with known history of myasthenia gravis

Hypersensitivity reactions

Serious and occasionally fatal hypersensitivity (anaphylactic) reactions, some
following the first dose, reported in patients receiving therapy; some reactions were
accompanied by cardiovascular collapse, acute myocardial ischemia with or without
myocardial infarction, loss of consciousness, tingling, pharyngeal or facial edema,
dyspnea, urticaria, and itching

Only a few patients had a history of hypersensitivity reactions; serious anaphylactic
reactions require immediate emergency treatment with epinephrine and other
resuscitation measures, including oxygen, intravenous fluids, intravenous

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/cipro-xr-ciprofloxacin-342530 49/55



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Cipro, Cipro XR (ciprofloxacin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

antihistamines, corticosteroids, pressor amines, and airway management, including
intubation, as indicated

CNS effects

Fluoroquinolones are associated with an increased risk of CNS effects(eg,
convulsions, increased intracranial pressure [including pseudotumor cerebri], and
toxic psychosis)

May also cause CNS events including: nervousness, agitation, insomnia, anxiety,
nightmares, paranoia, dizziness, confusion, tremors, hallucinations, depression, and
psychotic reactions have progressed to suicidal ideations/thoughts and self-
injurious behavior such as attempted or completed suicide; reactions may occur
following the first dose; advise patients to inform their healthcare provider
immediately if these reactions occur, discontinue treatment, and institute
appropriate care

Fluoroquinolone are also known to trigger seizures or lower the seizure threshold;
exercise caution in epileptic patients and patients with known or suspected CNS
disorders that may predispose to seizures or lower the seizure threshold (eg, severe
cerebral arteriosclerosis, previous history of convulsion, reduced cerebral blood
flow, altered brain structure, stroke), or in the presence of other risk factors that may
predispose to seizures or lower the seizure threshold (eg, certain drug therapy,
renal dysfunction)

Cases of status epilepticus have been reported; if seizures occur, discontinue
treatment

FDA MedWatch Safety Alert

Issued 12-20-2018

Increase in rate of aortic aneurysm and dissection reported within two months
following use of fluoroquinolones, particularly in elderly patients

May occur with fluoroquinolones for systemic use (IV or PO)

Patients who have an aortic aneurysm or are at risk for an aortic aneurysm (eg,
patients with peripheral atherosclerotic vascular diseases, hypertension, certain
genetic conditions [eg, Marfan syndrome, Ehlers-Danlos syndrome], elderly
patients)

Prescribe fluoroquinolones to these patients only when no other treatment options
are available

Advise patients to seek immediate medical treatment for any symptoms associated
with aortic aneurysm

Stop treatment immediately if a patient reports side effects suggestive of aortic
aneurysm or dissection

FDA MedWatch Safety Alert

Issued July 10, 2018

The FDA is strengthening the current warnings in the prescribing information for
fluoroquinolone antibiotics to inform clinicians of significant decreases in blood
glucose and certain mental health adverse effects

Hypoglycemia, sometimes resulting in coma, occurred more frequently in elderly
patients or in diabetic patients taking oral hypoglycemic medicine or insulin

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/cipro-xr-ciprofloxacin-342530 50/55



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Cipro, Cipro XR (ciprofloxacin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Alert patients regarding hypoglycemic symptoms and carefully monitor blood
glucose levels; instruct patients how to treat themselves if symptoms of
hypoglycemia occur

This safety alert affects only systemic formulations; early signs and symptoms of
low blood glucose include confusion, dizziness, feeling shaky, unusual hunger,
headaches, irritability, pounding heart or very fast pulse, pale skin, sweating,
trembling, weakness, and/or unusual anxiety

Mental health side effects are to be added to or updated across all the
fluoroquinolones are disturbances in attention, disorientation, agitation,
nervousness, memory impairment, and delirium

Inform patients of the potential risk of psychiatric adverse reactions that can occur
after just 1 dose

Immediately discontinue treatment if CNS adverse effects occur, including
psychiatric adverse reactions, or blood glucose disturbances occur and switch to a
nonfluoroquinolone antibiotic if possible

Drug interactions overview

Serious and fatal reactions have reported in patients receiving concurrent
administration of ciprofloxacin and theophylline; if concomitant use cannot be
avoided, monitor serum levels of theophylline and adjust dosage as appropriate

Coadministration of IV ciprofloxacin and other drugs primarily metabolized by
CYP1A2 (for example, theophylline, methylxanthines, caffeine, tizanidine, ropinirole,
clozapine, olanzapine, and zolpidem) results in increased plasma concentrations of
co-administered drug and could lead to clinically significant pharmacodynamic
adverse reactions of the co-administered drug

Use with caution in patients with history of seizures taking concurrent therapy that
lowers seizure threshold; risk increases rarely when administered concomitantly
with NSAIDs

Avoid IV administration in patients who have known QT prolongation, carry risk
factors for prolonged QT, or are taking class 1A or class III antiarrhythmic drugs

Pregnancy & Lactation

Pregnancy

Prolonged experience with ciprofloxacin in pregnant women over several decades, based
on available published information from case reports, case control studies and
observational studies during pregnancy, have not identified any drug-associated risk of
major birth defects, miscarriage or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes

Oral administration during organogenesis at doses up to 100 mg/kg to pregnant mice
and rats, and up to 30 mg/kg to pregnant rabbits did not cause fetal malformations;
these doses were up to 0.3, 0.6, and 0.4 times the maximum recommended clinical oral
dose in mice, rats, and rabbits, respectively, based on body surface area

Lactation

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/cipro-xr-ciprofloxacin-342530 51/55



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Cipro, Cipro XR (ciprofloxacin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Published literature reports that ciprofloxacin is present in human milk following
intravenous and oral administration; there is no information regarding effects on milk
production or breastfed infant; because of potential risk of serious adverse reactions in
breastfed infants, including arthropathy shown in juvenile animal studies

For most indications a lactating woman may consider pumping and discarding breast
milk during treatment and an additional two days (five half-lives) after last dose;
alternatively, advise a woman that breastfeeding is not recommended during treatment
and for an additional two days (five half-lives) after last dose

However, for inhalation anthrax (post exposure), during an incident resulting in exposure
to anthrax, the risk-benefit assessment of continuing breastfeeding while the mother
(and potentially the infant) is (are) on CIPRO may be acceptable

The developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along
with the mother's clinical need for therapy and any potential adverse effects on
breastfed child from drug or from underlying maternal condition

Ciprofloxacin may cause intestinal flora alteration of breastfeeding infant; advise a
woman to monitor breastfed infant for loose or bloody stools and candidiasis (thrush,
diaper rash)

Pregnancy Categories

A: Generally acceptable. Controlled studies in pregnant women show no evidence of
fetal risk.

B: May be acceptable. Either animal studies show no risk but human studies not available
or animal studies showed minor risks and human studies done and showed no risk.

C: Use with caution if benefits outweigh risks. Animal studies show risk and human
studies not available or neither animal nor human studies done.

D: Use in LIFE-THREATENING emergencies when no safer drug available. Positive
evidence of human fetal risk.

X: Do not use in pregnancy. Risks involved outweigh potential benefits. Safer alternatives
exist.

NA: Information not available.

Pharmacology

Mechanism of Action

Inhibits relaxation of DNA; inhibits DNA gyrase in susceptible organisms; promotes
breakage of double-stranded DNA

Absorption

Bioavailability (PO): ~50-85%

Peak plasma time (PO): Immediate-release, 0.5-2 hr; extended-release, 1-2.5 hr

Distribution

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/cipro-xr-ciprofloxacin-342530 52/55



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Cipro, Cipro XR (ciprofloxacin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Distributed widely throughout body; tissue concentrations often exceed serum
concentrations, especially in kidneys, gallbladder, liver, lungs, gynecologic tissue, and
prostatic tissue; cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) concentration is 10% in noninflamed meninges
and 14-37% in inflamed meninges; crosses placenta; enters breast milk

Protein bound: 20-40%

Vd: 2.1-2.7 L/kg

Metabolism

Metabolized in liver

Enzyme inhibitor: CYP1A2

Elimination

Half-life: 2-5 hr (children); 3-5 hr (adults)

Excretion: Urine (30-50%), feces (15-43%)

Administration

IV Incompatibilities

Additive: Aminophylline, amoxicillin, amoxicillin-clavulanate, amphotericin, ampicillin-
sulbactam, ceftazidime, cefuroxime, clindamycin, floxacillin, heparin, piperacillin, sodium
bicarbonate, ticarcillin

Y-site: Aminophylline, ampicillin-sulbactam, azithromycin, cefepime, dexamethasone
sodium phosphate, furosemide, heparin, hydrocortisone sodium succinate, magnesium
sulfate(?), methylprednisolone sodium succinate, phenytoin, potassium phosphates,
propofol, sodium bicarbonate(?), sodium phosphates, total parenteral nutrition
formulations, warfarin

IV Compatibilities

Solution: Compatible with most IV fluids

Additive: Amikacin, aztreonam, dobutamine, dopamine, fluconazole, gentamicin,
lidocaine, linezolid, metronidazole (ready-to-use form is compatible; hydrochloride form
in vial is incompatible), midazolam, potassium chloride, tobramycin

Y-site: Amiodarone, calcium gluconate, clarithromycin, digoxin, diphenhydramine,
dobutamine, dopamine, linezolid, lorazepam, midazolam, promethazine,
quinupristin/dalfopristin, tacrolimus

IV Administration

Infuse 1-2 mg/mL (diluted in D5W or NS) into large vein over 60 minutes

When administering intermittently through Y-site, temporarily discontinue primary
solution

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/cipro-xr-ciprofloxacin-342530 53/55



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Cipro, Cipro XR (ciprofloxacin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Oral Administration

May take with or without food

Tablet

If given with food, there is delayed absorption resulting in peak concentrations that
occur closer to 2 hr after dosing rather than 1 hr

Oral suspension

Shake well for 15 seconds before measuring each dose

No delayed absorption if given with food

Coadministration with multivalent cations or dairy

Multivalent cations
Take ciprofloxacin at least 2 hr before or 6 hr after multivalent cations

Examples: Magnesium/aluminum antacids, sucralfate, polymeric phosphate
binders (eg, sevelamer, lanthanum carbonate), other highly buffered drugs, or
other products containing calcium, iron, or zinc

Dairy
Avoid concomitant administration with dairy products (milk or yogurt) or
calcium-fortified juices alone since decreased absorption is possible

However, ciprofloxacin may be taken with a meal that contains these products

Hydration

Assure adequate hydration of patients to prevent formation of highly concentrated
urine

Crystalluria reported with quinolones

Missed dose

>6 hr before next dose: Take missed dose

<6 hr before next dose: Do not take, resume dosing with next schedules dose

Do not double the dose to compensate for a missed dose

Splitting tablets

Cipro: 250-mg and 500-mg tablets are functionally scored, which can be split into
one-half at the scored line to provide a 125-mg and 250-mg strength, respectively

Stability

IV stable at concentration of 0.5-2 mg/mL in D5W or NS for 14 days at room
temperature or refrigerated

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/cipro-xr-ciprofloxacin-342530 54/55



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Cipro, Cipro XR (ciprofloxacin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Formulary

Adding plans allows you to compare formulary status to other drugs in the same class.

Formulary information is available for health plans only in the United States.

Medscape prescription drug monographs are based on FDA-approved labeling information, unless otherwise noted,
combined with additional data derived from primary medical literature.

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/cipro-xr-ciprofloxacin-342530 55/55