6/22/26, 8:09 PM Vibramycin, Doryx (doxycycline) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
This site is intended for healthcare professionals

doxycycline (Rx)
Brand and Other Names: Vibramycin, Monodox, Acticlate, Atridox, Avidoxy, Doxy,
Doxycin, Doryx, Oracea, Periostat, Adoxa, Ocudox, Doryx MPC
Classes: Tetracyclines

Dosing & Uses

ADULT
Dosage Forms & Strengths

capsule

50mg (Monodox, generic)

75mg (Monodox)

100mg (Monodox, Vibramycin, generic)

150mg (Adoxa)

solution, reconstituted powder for IV

100mg (Doxy, generic)

syrup

50mg/5mL (Vibramycin)

oral suspension

25mg/5mL (Vibramycin, generic)

tablet

20mg (generic)

50mg (Adoxa, generic)

75mg (Acticlate, Adoxa, generic)

100mg (Adoxa, generic)

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/vibramycin-doryx-doxycycline-342548 1/26



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Vibramycin, Doryx (doxycycline) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

150mg (Acticlate, generic)

tablet, delayed-release

50mg (Doryx)

60mg (Doryx MPC)

75mg (generic)

100mg (generic)

120mg (Doryx MPC)

150mg (Doryx, generic)

200mg (Doryx)

capsule, delayed-release

40mg (Oracea, generic)

periodontal extended-release liquid

10%

Rickettsial Infections

Indicated for Rocky Mountain spotted fever, typhus fever and the typhus group, Q fever,
rickettsialpox, and tick fevers caused by Rickettsiae

Day 1: 200 mg/day PO/IV divided BID (IV may be given qDay), THEN

Maintenance: 100-200 mg/day PO/IV qDay or divided q12hr (IV may be given qDay)

Sexually Transmitted Infections

Lymphogranuloma venereum, uncomplicated urethral, endocervical or rectal

infections caused by Chlamydia trachomatis

Uncomplicated urethral or endocervical infections
100 mg PO BID or 200 mg PO qDay (delayed-release) x 7 days

For empiric therapy, give in combination with single dose of ceftriaxone if
patient at high risk for gonorrhea, if follow up is a concern, or if local
prevalence of gonorrhea elevated

Rectal infections
Empiric therapy for acute proctitis or proctocolitis or pathogen-directed
therapy for Chlamydia trachomatis (off-label): 100 mg PO BID x 7 days

For empiric therapy, give in combination with a single dose of ceftriaxone

Lymphogranuloma venereum: Extend duration to 21 days for presumptive
therapy of lymphogranuloma venereum if patient has severe rectal symptoms
(eg, bloody discharge, tenesmus, perianal ulcers or mucosal ulcers) and a
positive rectal chlamydia or HIV infection

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/vibramycin-doryx-doxycycline-342548 2/26



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Vibramycin, Doryx (doxycycline) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Nongonococcal urethritis caused by Ureaplasma urealyticum

100 mg PO BID x 7 day

Granuloma inguinale caused by Klebsiella granulomatis

100 mg PO BID x 3 weeks and until resolution of lesions

Consider adding additional antibiotic if symptoms do not improve within first few
days

Post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP) (Off-label)

Postexposure prophylaxis after unprotected vaginal, oral, or anal sex: 200 mg PO x
1 dose within 72 hr after sex among bisexual males, males who have sex with
males, and transgender women

Maximum dose: 200 mg/24 hr

CDC recommends doxycycline post-exposure prophylaxis (doxy-PEP) to prevent
gonorrhea, chlamydia, and syphilis

https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/volumes/73/rr/rr7302a1.htm

Syphilis caused by Treponema pallidum (when penicillin contraindicated)

Syphilis (<1 year duration): 100 mg PO BID for 2 weeks

Syphilis (≥1 year duration): 100 mg PO BID for 4 weeks

Close serologic and clinical follow-up warranted as data are limited

Uncomplicated gonorrhea caused by Neisseria gonorrhoeae

Although included in the manufacturer's prescribing information as an FDA-
approved use, doxycycline is not recommended for treatment of uncomplicated
gonorrhea owing to resistance

CDC Sexually Transmitted Infections Treatment Guidelines, 2021

Respiratory Tract Infections

Indications

Respiratory tract infections caused by Mycoplasma pneumoniae

Psittacosis (ornithosis) caused by Chlamydophila psittaci

Indicated for respiratory tract infections caused by the following microorganisms,
when bacteriological testing indicates appropriate susceptibility to drug:

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/vibramycin-doryx-doxycycline-342548 3/26



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Vibramycin, Doryx (doxycycline) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Haemophilus influenzae, Klebsiella species, Streptococcus pneumoniae

Dosage

Day 1: 200 mg/day PO/IV divided BID (IV may be given qDay), THEN

Maintenance: 100-200 mg/day PO/IV qDay or divided q12hr PO/IV (IV may be
given qDay)

Specific Bacterial Infections

Indications

Relapsing fever due to Borrelia recurrentis

Plague due to Yersinia pestis

Tularemia due to Francisella tularensis

Cholera caused by Vibrio cholerae

Campylobacter fetus infections caused by Campylobacter fetus

Brucellosis due to Brucella species (in conjunction with streptomycin)

Bartonellosis due to Bartonella bacilliformis

Gram negative microorganisms (eg, Escherichia coli, Enterobacter aerogenes,
Shigella species, Acinetobacter species, urinary tract infections caused by Klebsiella
species)

Dosage

Day 1: 200 mg/day PO/IV divided BID (IV may be given qDay), THEN

Maintenance: 100-200 mg/day PO/IV qDay or divided q12hr PO/IV (IV may be
given qDay)

Ophthalmic infections

Indicated for trachoma caused by Chlamydia trachomatis, although the infectious agent
is not always eliminated as judged by immunofluorescence

Inclusion conjunctivitis caused by Chlamydia trachomatis

Anthrax

Indicated for anthrax due to Bacillus anthracis, including inhalational anthrax
(postexposure)

100 mg PO BID for 60 days

Select Infections When Penicillin is Contraindicated

When penicillin is contraindicated, doxycycline is an alternative treatment of the

following infections:

Yaws caused by Treponema pallidum subspecies pertenue

Vincent’s infection caused by Fusobacterium fusiforme

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/vibramycin-doryx-doxycycline-342548 4/26



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Vibramycin, Doryx (doxycycline) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Actinomycosis caused by Actinomyces israelii. Infections caused by Clostridium
species

Acute Intestinal Amebiasis

Indicated as adjunctive therapy for acute intestinal amebiasis

Day 1: 200 mg/day PO/IV divided BID (IV may be given qDay), THEN

Maintenance: 100-200 mg/day PO/IV qDay or divided q12hr (IV may be given qDay)

Acne Vulgaris

Indicated as adjunctive therapy for severe acne

Immediate-release: 50-100 mg PO BID or 100 mg PO qDay

Extended-release: 100 mg PO BID on day 1, then 100 mg qDay

Low-dose (subantimicrobial) dosing: 20 mg PO BID (immediate-release) or 40 mg PO
qDay (delayed-release)

Rosacea

Oracea only

Indicated for treatment of only inflammatory lesions (papules and pustules) of rosacea in
adults

20 mg once daily (delayed release; Oracea) or 20 mg twice daily (immediate release)

Malaria

Indicated for prophylaxis of malaria due to Plasmodium falciparum in short-term
travelers (<4 months) to areas with chloroquine and/or pyrimethamine-sulfadoxine
resistant strains

Prophylaxis: 100 mg PO qDay; begin taking 1-2 days before travel and continue daily
during travel and for 4 weeks after traveler leaves malaria infested area

Severe infection (off-label): 100 mg PO/IV q12hr x 7 days with 3-7 days quinidine
gluconate

Uncomplicated infection (off-label): 100 mg PO q12hr x 7 days with 3-7 days quinine
sulfate depending on region

Equivalent dose of Doryx MPC is 120 mg

Periodontal Disease

Atridox: Apply subgingivally; dose depends on size, shape, and number of pockets

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/vibramycin-doryx-doxycycline-342548 5/26



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Vibramycin, Doryx (doxycycline) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

treated

Dosing Considerations

Susceptible organisms

Propionibacterium acnes, Actinomyces israelii, Acinetobacter spp, Bacillus
anthracis, Bacteroides spp., Bartonella bacilliformis, Bartonella henselae,
Bartonella quintana, Borrelia recurrentis, Brucella spp, Campylobacter jejuni,
Chlamydia psittaci, Chlamydia trachomatis, Capnocytophaga canimorsus,
Citrobacter diversus, Citrobacter freundii, Escherichia coli, Eikenella corrodens,
Francisella tularensis, Haemophilus ducreyi, Helicobacter pylori, Klebsiella
granulomatis, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Listeria monocytogenes, Mycoplasma
hominis, Mycoplasma pneumoniae, Neisseria gonorrhoeae, Propionibacterium
acnes, Rickettsiae, Shigella spp., MRSA, Staphylococcus saprophyticus,
Streptococcus spp, Treponema pallidum, Ureaplasma urealyticum, Vibrio cholerae,
Yersinia enterocolitica, Yersinia pestis, VRE, mycobacteria other than tuberculosis

PEDIATRIC
Dosage Forms & Strengths

capsule

50mg (Monodox, generic)

75mg (Monodox)

100mg (Monodox, Vibramycin, generic)

150mg (Adoxa)

solution, reconstituted powder for IV

100mg (Doxy, generic)

syrup

50mg/5mL (Vibramycin)

oral suspension

25mg/5mL (Vibramycin, generic)

tablet

20mg (generic)

50mg (Adoxa, generic)

75mg (Acticlate, Adoxa, generic)

100mg (Adoxa, generic)

150mg (Acticlate, generic)

tablet, delayed-release

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/vibramycin-doryx-doxycycline-342548 6/26



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Vibramycin, Doryx (doxycycline) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

50mg (Doryx)

60mg (Doryx MPC)

75mg (generic)

100mg (generic)

120mg (Doryx MPC)

150mg (Doryx, generic)

200mg (Doryx)

capsule, delayed-release

40mg (Oracea, generic)

General Dosing Guidelines

≤8 years: Not recommended for mild-to-moderate infections; may cause tooth
discoloration and enamel hypoplasia during tooth development

>8 years, <45 Kg

Load: 4.4 mg/kg/day PO/IV divided q12hr day 1 

Maintenance: 2.2-4.4 mg/kg/day IV/PO qDay (may divide BID for higher doses)

Doryx MPC
Severe or life-threatening infections (eg, anthrax, Rocky Mountain spotted
fever): 2.6 mg/kg PO BID

Less severe infections: 5.3 mg/kg PO divided into 2 doses on day 1, then a
maintenance dose of 2.6 mg/kg PO qDay

>8 years, ≥45 kg

100 mg PO q12hr or 50 mg PO q6hr on day 1, followed by maintenance dose of
100 mg/day as single dose or as 50 mg q12hr

Doryx MPC: 120 mg PO q12hr on day 1, followed by maintenance dose of 120
mg/day; may increase frequency to q12hr for more severe infections, particularly
chronic UTI

Anthrax

Anthrax due to Bacillus anthracis, including inhalational anthrax (postexposure)

≤8 years: 2.2 mg/kg PO/IV q12hr for 60 days (change to amoxicillin as soon as penicillin
susceptibility confirmed) 

>8 years

≤45 kg: 2.2 mg/kg PO/IV q12hr for 60 days (Doryx MPC: 2.6 mg/kg PO q12hr for 60
days)

>45 kg: 100 mg PO/IV q12hr for 60 days (Doryx MPC: 120 mg PO q12hr for 60
days)

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/vibramycin-doryx-doxycycline-342548 7/26



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Vibramycin, Doryx (doxycycline) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Malaria

Prophylaxis

Indicated for prophylaxis of malaria due to Plasmodium falciparum in short-
termtravelers (<4 months) to areas with chloroquine and/or pyrimethamine-
sulfadoxineresistant strains

2 mg/kg PO qDay; not to exceed 100 mg /day

Doryx MPC: 2.4 mg/kg PO qDay

Initiate treatment 1-2 days prior to travel to endemic area and continue for 4 weeks
after leaving the area

Severe infection

<45 kg: 2.2 mg/kg q12hr for 7 days with quinidine gluconate

≥45 kg (Off label): 100 mg PO/IV q12hr for 7 days with quinidine gluconate

Uncomplicated

>8 years: 2.2 mg/kg; not to exceed 100 mg dose PO q12hr for 7 days with quinine
sulfate

Interactions

Interaction Checker

Enter a drug name to check for any interactions. Type a drug, OTC, or herbal  and doxycycline
No Interactions Found
Interactions Found
Contraindicated

Serious

Significant - Monitor Closely

Minor

All Interactions Sort By: Severity
Contraindicated (3)

acitretin
doxycycline, acitretin. Other (see comment). Contraindicated. Comment: Both
acitretin and tetracyclines can cause increased intracranial pressure.

allogeneic cultured keratinocytes/fibroblasts in bovine collagen

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/vibramycin-doryx-doxycycline-342548 8/26



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Vibramycin, Doryx (doxycycline) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

doxycycline decreases effects of allogeneic cultured keratinocytes/fibroblasts in
bovine collagen by Other (see comment). Contraindicated. Comment: Exposure to
topical antibiotics has been shown to degrade Gintuit; if exposed, irrigate the
wound thoroughly with saline and allow a suitable wash-out period to elapse
before applying Gintuit.

tretinoin
doxycycline, tretinoin. Either increases toxicity of the other by unspecified
interaction mechanism. Contraindicated. Both tretinoin and tetracyclines can cause
increased intracranial pressure.

Serious (55)

aluminum hydroxide
aluminum hydroxide decreases levels of doxycycline by inhibition of GI absorption.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Separate by
2 hours.

aminolevulinic acid oral
aminolevulinic acid oral, doxycycline. Either increases toxicity of the other by
pharmacodynamic synergism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Avoid administering
other phototoxic drugs with aminolevulinic acid oral for 24 hr during perioperative
period.

aminolevulinic acid topical
doxycycline increases toxicity of aminolevulinic acid topical by pharmacodynamic
synergism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Coadministration of photosensitizing drugs
may enhance the phototoxic reaction to photodynamic therapy with aminolevulinic
acid.

amoxicillin
doxycycline decreases effects of amoxicillin by pharmacodynamic antagonism.
Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Tetracyclines may interfere with the bactericidal
action of penicillins. Monitor for decreased therapeutic effects of penicillins if
concomitantly used with a tetracycline.

ampicillin
doxycycline decreases effects of ampicillin by pharmacodynamic antagonism. Avoid
or Use Alternate Drug. Tetracyclines may interfere with the bactericidal action of
penicillins. Monitor for decreased therapeutic effects of penicillins if concomitantly
used with a tetracycline.

atracurium
doxycycline increases effects of atracurium by pharmacodynamic synergism. Avoid
or Use Alternate Drug. Risk of respiratory depression.

BCG vaccine live
doxycycline decreases effects of BCG vaccine live by pharmacodynamic
antagonism. Contraindicated. Wait until Abx Tx complete to administer live
bacterial vaccine.

bismuth subsalicylate

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/vibramycin-doryx-doxycycline-342548 9/26



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Vibramycin, Doryx (doxycycline) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

bismuth subsalicylate decreases levels of doxycycline by inhibition of GI absorption.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

calcium acetate
calcium acetate, doxycycline. Either decreases levels of the other by inhibition of GI
absorption. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
Separate by 2 hours.

calcium carbonate
calcium carbonate, doxycycline. Either decreases levels of the other by inhibition of
GI absorption. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug. Separate by 2 hours.

calcium chloride
calcium chloride, doxycycline. Either decreases levels of the other by inhibition of GI
absorption. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
Separate by 2 hours.

calcium citrate
calcium citrate, doxycycline. Either decreases levels of the other by inhibition of GI
absorption. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
Separate by 2 hours.

calcium gluconate
calcium gluconate, doxycycline. Either decreases levels of the other by inhibition of
GI absorption. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug. Separate by 2 hours.

carbonyl iron
carbonyl iron decreases levels of doxycycline by inhibition of GI absorption. Applies
only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

cholera vaccine
doxycycline, cholera vaccine. pharmacodynamic antagonism. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug. Avoid coadministration of cholera vaccine with systemic antibiotics since
these agents may be active against the vaccine strain. Do not administer cholera
vaccine to patients who have received oral or parenteral antibiotics within 14 days
prior to vaccination.

cisatracurium
doxycycline increases effects of cisatracurium by pharmacodynamic synergism.
Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Risk of respiratory depression.

dicloxacillin
doxycycline decreases effects of dicloxacillin by pharmacodynamic antagonism.
Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

ferric maltol
ferric maltol will decrease the level or effect of doxycycline by inhibition of GI
absorption. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. If
alternate not possible, separate administration by at least 4 hours

ferrous fumarate

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/vibramycin-doryx-doxycycline-342548 10/26



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Vibramycin, Doryx (doxycycline) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

ferrous fumarate decreases levels of doxycycline by inhibition of GI absorption.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

ferrous gluconate
ferrous gluconate decreases levels of doxycycline by inhibition of GI absorption.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

ferrous sulfate
ferrous sulfate decreases levels of doxycycline by inhibition of GI absorption.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

iron dextran complex
iron dextran complex decreases levels of doxycycline by inhibition of GI absorption.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

iron sucrose
iron sucrose decreases levels of doxycycline by inhibition of GI absorption. Applies
only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

isotretinoin
isotretinoin, doxycycline. Mechanism: unknown. Contraindicated. Risk of
pseudotumor cerebri.

magnesium chloride
magnesium chloride decreases levels of doxycycline by inhibition of GI absorption.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

magnesium citrate
magnesium citrate decreases levels of doxycycline by inhibition of GI absorption.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

magnesium hydroxide
magnesium hydroxide decreases levels of doxycycline by inhibition of GI absorption.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

magnesium oxide
magnesium oxide decreases levels of doxycycline by inhibition of GI absorption.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

magnesium sulfate
magnesium sulfate decreases levels of doxycycline by inhibition of GI absorption.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

methoxyflurane
doxycycline, methoxyflurane. Mechanism: pharmacodynamic synergism. Avoid or
Use Alternate Drug. Risk of nephrotoxicity.

methyl aminolevulinate
doxycycline, methyl aminolevulinate. Either increases toxicity of the other by
pharmacodynamic synergism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Each drug may increase
the photosensitizing effect of the other.

microbiota oral

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/vibramycin-doryx-doxycycline-342548 11/26



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Vibramycin, Doryx (doxycycline) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

doxycycline decreases effects of microbiota oral by pharmacodynamic antagonism.
Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Microbiota oral contains bacterial spores.
Antibacterial agents may decrease efficacy if coadministered. Complete antibiotic
regimens 2-4 days before initiating microbiota oral. .

nafcillin
doxycycline decreases effects of nafcillin by pharmacodynamic antagonism. Avoid
or Use Alternate Drug. bacteriostatic antibiotics may interfere with the bactericidal
actions of penicillins.

oxacillin
doxycycline decreases effects of oxacillin by pharmacodynamic antagonism. Avoid
or Use Alternate Drug. bacteriostatic agents may inhibit the effects of bactericidal
agents.

palovarotene
doxycycline, palovarotene. Other (see comment). Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
Comment: Systemic retinoid use has been associated with cases of benign
intracranial hypertension (pseudotumor cerebri), some of which involved
concomitant use of tetracyclines.

pancuronium
doxycycline increases effects of pancuronium by pharmacodynamic synergism.
Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Risk of respiratory depression.

penicillin G aqueous
doxycycline decreases effects of penicillin G aqueous by pharmacodynamic
antagonism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

penicillin VK
doxycycline decreases effects of penicillin VK by pharmacodynamic antagonism.
Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

polysaccharide iron
polysaccharide iron decreases levels of doxycycline by inhibition of GI absorption.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

rapacuronium
doxycycline increases effects of rapacuronium by pharmacodynamic synergism.
Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Risk of respiratory depression.

rocuronium
doxycycline increases effects of rocuronium by pharmacodynamic synergism. Avoid
or Use Alternate Drug. Risk of respiratory depression.

rose hips
rose hips decreases levels of doxycycline by inhibition of GI absorption. Applies
only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

siponimod
doxycycline will increase the level or effect of siponimod by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2E1 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Coadministration of

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/vibramycin-doryx-doxycycline-342548 12/26



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Vibramycin, Doryx (doxycycline) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

siponimod with a moderate or strong CYP3A4 inhibitor PLUS a moderate or strong
CYP2C9 inhibitor is not recommended.

sodium bicarbonate
sodium bicarbonate decreases levels of doxycycline by inhibition of GI absorption.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Separate by
2 hours.

sodium citrate/citric acid
sodium citrate/citric acid decreases levels of doxycycline by inhibition of GI
absorption. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
Separate by 2 hours.

sodium sulfate/?magnesium sulfate/potassium chloride
sodium sulfate/?magnesium sulfate/potassium chloride decreases levels of
doxycycline by inhibition of GI absorption. Applies only to oral form of both agents.
Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Administer tetracyclines at least 2 hr before and no
less than 6 hr after each dose to avoid chelation with magnesium. .

sodium sulfate/potassium sulfate/magnesium sulfate
sodium sulfate/potassium sulfate/magnesium sulfate decreases levels of
doxycycline by inhibition of GI absorption. Applies only to oral form of both agents.
Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Administer tetracyclines at least 2 hr before and no
less than 6 hr after each dose to avoid chelation with magnesium. .

strontium ranelate
strontium ranelate decreases levels of doxycycline by inhibition of GI absorption.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Contraindicated. Suspend strontium
ranelate during antibiotic therapy.

succinylcholine
doxycycline increases effects of succinylcholine by pharmacodynamic synergism.
Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Risk of respiratory depression.

temocillin
doxycycline decreases effects of temocillin by pharmacodynamic antagonism. Avoid
or Use Alternate Drug.

tretinoin
doxycycline, tretinoin. Either increases levels of the other by Mechanism:
pharmacodynamic synergism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Increased phototoxicity.

tretinoin topical
doxycycline, tretinoin topical. Mechanism: pharmacodynamic synergism. Avoid or
Use Alternate Drug. Increased phototoxicity.

tripotassium dicitratobismuthate
tripotassium dicitratobismuthate decreases levels of doxycycline by inhibition of GI
absorption. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

typhoid vaccine live
doxycycline decreases effects of typhoid vaccine live by pharmacodynamic
antagonism. Contraindicated. Wait until Abx Tx complete to administer live

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/vibramycin-doryx-doxycycline-342548 13/26



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Vibramycin, Doryx (doxycycline) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

bacterial vaccine.

vecuronium
doxycycline increases effects of vecuronium by pharmacodynamic synergism. Avoid
or Use Alternate Drug. Risk of respiratory depression.

Monitor Closely (43)

bazedoxifene/conjugated estrogens
doxycycline will decrease the level or effect of bazedoxifene/conjugated estrogens
by altering intestinal flora. Applies only to oral forms of hormone. Low risk of
contraceptive failure. Use Caution/Monitor.

butalbital
butalbital decreases levels of doxycycline by increasing metabolism. Use
Caution/Monitor.

carbamazepine
carbamazepine decreases levels of doxycycline by increasing metabolism. Use
Caution/Monitor.

cefdinir
doxycycline decreases effects of cefdinir by pharmacodynamic antagonism. Use
Caution/Monitor. bacteriostatic agents may inhibit the effects of bactericidal agents.

cefditoren
doxycycline decreases effects of cefditoren by pharmacodynamic antagonism. Use
Caution/Monitor. bacteriostatic agents may inhibit the effects of bactericidal agents.

cefoxitin
doxycycline decreases effects of cefoxitin by pharmacodynamic antagonism. Use
Caution/Monitor. bacteriostatic agents may inhibit the effects of bactericidal agents.

cefpodoxime
doxycycline decreases effects of cefpodoxime by pharmacodynamic antagonism.
Use Caution/Monitor. bacteriostatic agents may inhibit the effects of bactericidal
agents.

ceftriaxone
doxycycline decreases effects of ceftriaxone by pharmacodynamic antagonism. Use
Caution/Monitor. bacteriostatic agents may inhibit the effects of bactericidal agents.

cefuroxime
doxycycline decreases effects of cefuroxime by pharmacodynamic antagonism. Use
Caution/Monitor. bacteriostatic agents may inhibit the effects of bactericidal agents.

cholestyramine
cholestyramine decreases levels of doxycycline by inhibition of GI absorption.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.

conjugated estrogens

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/vibramycin-doryx-doxycycline-342548 14/26



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Vibramycin, Doryx (doxycycline) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

doxycycline will decrease the level or effect of conjugated estrogens by altering
intestinal flora. Applies only to oral forms of hormone. Low risk of contraceptive
failure. Use Caution/Monitor.

didanosine
didanosine will decrease the level or effect of doxycycline by inhibition of GI
absorption. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely. Applies to didanosine chewable tablets and powder for oral solution;
administer 2 hr before or several hours after didanosine oral solution or chewable
tablet administration

digoxin
doxycycline will increase the level or effect of digoxin by altering intestinal flora.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.

eslicarbazepine acetate
eslicarbazepine acetate decreases levels of doxycycline by increasing metabolism.
Use Caution/Monitor.

estradiol
doxycycline will decrease the level or effect of estradiol by altering intestinal flora.
Applies only to oral forms of hormone. Low risk of contraceptive failure. Use
Caution/Monitor.

estrogens conjugated synthetic
doxycycline will decrease the level or effect of estrogens conjugated synthetic by
altering intestinal flora. Applies only to oral forms of hormone. Low risk of
contraceptive failure. Use Caution/Monitor.

estropipate
doxycycline will decrease the level or effect of estropipate by altering intestinal
flora. Applies only to oral forms of hormone. Low risk of contraceptive failure. Use
Caution/Monitor.

ethinylestradiol
doxycycline will decrease the level or effect of ethinylestradiol by altering intestinal
flora. Applies only to oral forms of hormone. Low risk of contraceptive failure. Use
Caution/Monitor.

ferric citrate
ferric citrate will decrease the level or effect of doxycycline by drug binding in GI
tract. Use Caution/Monitor. Administer doxycycline at least 1 hr before ferric citrate

fosphenytoin
fosphenytoin decreases levels of doxycycline by increasing metabolism. Use
Caution/Monitor.

lanthanum carbonate
lanthanum carbonate decreases levels of doxycycline by cation binding in GI tract.
Use Caution/Monitor. Administer oral tetracycline antibiotics at least 2 hr before or
after lanthanum. Interaction applies only to oral tetracyclines.

levonorgestrel oral/ethinylestradiol/ferrous bisglycinate

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/vibramycin-doryx-doxycycline-342548 15/26



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Vibramycin, Doryx (doxycycline) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

doxycycline will decrease the level or effect of levonorgestrel
oral/ethinylestradiol/ferrous bisglycinate by altering intestinal flora. Applies only to
oral forms of hormone. Low risk of contraceptive failure. Use Caution/Monitor.
Antibiotics may decrease hormonal contraceptive efficacy.

magnesium supplement
magnesium supplement will decrease the level or effect of doxycycline by Other
(see comment). Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Formation of an insoluble complex
reduces absorption of the drug through intestinal tract; administer magnesium 2hr
before the tetracycline or 4hr after the tetracycline.

mestranol
doxycycline will decrease the level or effect of mestranol by altering intestinal flora.
Applies only to oral forms of hormone. Low risk of contraceptive failure. Use
Caution/Monitor.

methotrexate
doxycycline increases levels of methotrexate by decreasing elimination. Use
Caution/Monitor. Tetracyclines may decrease intestinal absorption of methotrexate
or interfere with the enterohepatic circulation by inhibiting bowel flora and
suppressing metabolism of the drug by bacteria.

methoxsalen
methoxsalen, doxycycline. Either increases toxicity of the other by
pharmacodynamic synergism. Use Caution/Monitor. Additive photosensitizing
effects.

mipomersen
mipomersen, doxycycline. Either increases toxicity of the other by Other (see
comment). Use Caution/Monitor. Comment: Both drugs have potential to increase
hepatic enzymes; monitor LFTs.

ospemifene
doxycycline, ospemifene. Either increases levels of the other by plasma protein
binding competition. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.

oxcarbazepine
oxcarbazepine decreases levels of doxycycline by increasing metabolism. Use
Caution/Monitor.

pentobarbital
pentobarbital decreases levels of doxycycline by increasing metabolism. Use
Caution/Monitor.

phenobarbital
phenobarbital decreases levels of doxycycline by increasing metabolism. Use
Caution/Monitor.

phenytoin
phenytoin decreases levels of doxycycline by increasing metabolism. Use
Caution/Monitor.

piperacillin

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/vibramycin-doryx-doxycycline-342548 16/26



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Vibramycin, Doryx (doxycycline) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

doxycycline decreases effects of piperacillin by pharmacodynamic antagonism. Use
Caution/Monitor. bacteriostatic agents may inhibit the effects of bactericidal agents.

polycarbophil
polycarbophil decreases levels of doxycycline by inhibition of GI absorption. Applies
only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.

porfimer
doxycycline, porfimer. Mechanism: pharmacodynamic synergism. Use
Caution/Monitor. Enhanced photosensitivity.

primidone
primidone decreases levels of doxycycline by increasing metabolism. Use
Caution/Monitor.

rifabutin
rifabutin decreases levels of doxycycline by increasing metabolism. Use
Caution/Monitor.

rifampin
rifampin decreases levels of doxycycline by increasing metabolism. Use
Caution/Monitor.

sodium picosulfate/magnesium oxide/anhydrous citric acid
doxycycline decreases effects of sodium picosulfate/magnesium oxide/anhydrous
citric acid by altering metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Coadministration with
antibiotics decreases efficacy by altering colonic bacterial flora needed to convert
sodium picosulfate to active drug.

sodium picosulfate/magnesium oxide/anhydrous citric acid decreases levels of
doxycycline by cation binding in GI tract. Use Caution/Monitor. Take at least 2 hours
before and not less than 6 hours after administration of sodium picosulfate,
magnesium oxide and anhydrous citric acid to avoid magnesium chelation.

sucroferric oxyhydroxide
sucroferric oxyhydroxide decreases levels of doxycycline by drug binding in GI tract.
Use Caution/Monitor. Do not administer at the same time; take doxycycline at least
1 hr before sucroferric oxyhydroxide.

trimagnesium citrate anhydrous
trimagnesium citrate anhydrous decreases levels of doxycycline by inhibition of GI
absorption. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
Multivalent cation-containing products may reduce bioavailability of tetracyclines;
administer tetracycline at least 2 hr before or 6 hr after magnesium; use alternatives
if available.

warfarin
doxycycline increases effects of warfarin by unspecified interaction mechanism. Use
Caution/Monitor.

zinc
zinc will decrease the level or effect of doxycycline by cation binding in GI tract.
Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Separate administration of oral tetracycline

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/vibramycin-doryx-doxycycline-342548 17/26



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Vibramycin, Doryx (doxycycline) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

derivatives and oral zinc salts by at least 2 hr.

Minor (23)

antithrombin alfa
doxycycline increases effects of antithrombin alfa by pharmacodynamic synergism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

antithrombin III
doxycycline increases effects of antithrombin III by pharmacodynamic synergism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

argatroban
doxycycline increases effects of argatroban by pharmacodynamic synergism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

balsalazide
doxycycline will decrease the level or effect of balsalazide by altering intestinal
flora. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Minor/Significance Unknown.

bemiparin
doxycycline increases effects of bemiparin by pharmacodynamic synergism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

biotin
doxycycline will decrease the level or effect of biotin by altering intestinal flora.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Minor/Significance Unknown.

bivalirudin
doxycycline increases effects of bivalirudin by pharmacodynamic synergism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

colestipol
colestipol decreases levels of doxycycline by inhibition of GI absorption. Applies
only to oral form of both agents. Minor/Significance Unknown.

dalteparin
doxycycline increases effects of dalteparin by pharmacodynamic synergism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

enoxaparin
doxycycline increases effects of enoxaparin by pharmacodynamic synergism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

ethanol
ethanol decreases levels of doxycycline by increasing elimination.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

fondaparinux
doxycycline increases effects of fondaparinux by pharmacodynamic synergism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/vibramycin-doryx-doxycycline-342548 18/26



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Vibramycin, Doryx (doxycycline) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

heparin
doxycycline increases effects of heparin by pharmacodynamic synergism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

niacin
doxycycline will decrease the level or effect of niacin by altering intestinal flora.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Minor/Significance Unknown.

pantothenic acid
doxycycline will decrease the level or effect of pantothenic acid by altering
intestinal flora. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Minor/Significance
Unknown.

phenindione
doxycycline increases effects of phenindione by pharmacodynamic synergism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

protamine
doxycycline increases effects of protamine by pharmacodynamic synergism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

pyridoxine
doxycycline will decrease the level or effect of pyridoxine by altering intestinal flora.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Minor/Significance Unknown.

pyridoxine (Antidote)
doxycycline will decrease the level or effect of pyridoxine (Antidote) by altering
intestinal flora. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Minor/Significance
Unknown.

rose hips
doxycycline decreases levels of rose hips by increasing elimination.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

sucralfate
sucralfate decreases levels of doxycycline by inhibition of GI absorption. Applies
only to oral form of both agents. Minor/Significance Unknown.

thiamine
doxycycline will decrease the level or effect of thiamine by altering intestinal flora.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Minor/Significance Unknown.

verteporfin
doxycycline, verteporfin. Mechanism: pharmacodynamic synergism.
Minor/Significance Unknown. Increased phototoxicity.

Adverse Effects

Frequency Not Defined

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/vibramycin-doryx-doxycycline-342548 19/26



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Vibramycin, Doryx (doxycycline) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Anorexia

Dental discoloration

Diarrhea

Dysphagia

Enterocolitis

Erythema multiform

Esophageal ulcer

Esophagitis

Exacerbation of systemic lupus erythematosus

Exfoliative dermatitis

Glossitis

Headache

Hemolytic anemia

Hepatotoxicity

Hypoglycemia

Inflammatory anogenital lesion

Intracranial hypertension

Nausea

Neutropenia

Pericarditis

Serum sickness

Skin hyperpigmentation

Toxic epidermal necrolysis

Thrombocytopenia

Upper abdominal pain

Urticaria

Vomiting

Drug rash with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms

Postmarketing Reports

Pancreatitis

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/vibramycin-doryx-doxycycline-342548 20/26



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Vibramycin, Doryx (doxycycline) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Stevens-Johnson syndrome

Maculopapular and erythematous rashes

Angioneurotic edema

Anaphylaxis

Anaphylactoid purpura

Jarisch-Herxheimer reaction in the setting of spirochete infections

Fixed drug eruptions

Psychiatric: Depression, anxiety, suicidal ideation, insomnia, abnormal dreams,
hallucination

Warnings

Contraindications

Documented hypersensitivity

Cautions

Use of tetracyclines during tooth development (last half of pregnancy through age 8
years) can cause permanent discoloration of teeth; this adverse reaction is more common
during long-term use but has been observed following repeated short-term courses;
enamel hypoplasia has also been reported

Use doxycycline in pediatric patients 8 years of age or less only when potential benefits
expected to outweigh risks in severe or life-threatening conditions (eg, anthrax, Rocky
Mountain spotted fever); particularly when there are no alternative therapies

Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all
antibacterial agents, and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis

Photosensitivity manifested by an exaggerated sunburn reaction has been observed in
some individuals taking tetracyclines

May result in overgrowth of non-susceptible organisms, including fungi. If such
infections occur, discontinue use and institute appropriate therapy

Severe skin reactions, such as exfoliative dermatitis, erythema multiforme, Stevens-
Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, and drug reaction with eosinophilia and
systemic symptoms (DRESS) reported; if severe skin reactions occur, discontinue therapy
immediately and institute appropriate therapy

Intracranial hypertension (pseudotumor cerebri) reported (rare) may occur; symptoms
include headache, blurred vision, diplopia, and vision loss; papilledema can be found on
funduscopy; women of childbearing age who are overweight or have a history of IH are
at greater risk; possibility for permanent visual loss exists; if visual disturbance occurs
during treatment, prompt ophthalmologic evaluation is warranted; intracranial pressure
can remain elevated for weeks after drug cessation; monitor until they stabilize

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/vibramycin-doryx-doxycycline-342548 21/26



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Vibramycin, Doryx (doxycycline) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

All tetracyclines form a stable calcium complex in any bone-forming tissue; decrease in
fibula growth rate has been observed in prematures given an oral tetracycline; reaction
was shown to be reversible when the drug was discontinue

Antianabolic action of the tetracyclines may cause an increase in BUN; studies to date
indicate that this does not occur with the use of doxycycline in patients with impaired
renal function

Doxycycline offers substantial but not complete suppression of the asexual blood stages
of Plasmodium strains

Prescribing doxycycline in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial
infection or a prophylactic indication is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and
increases the risk of the development of drug-resistant bacteria

In long-term therapy, periodic laboratory evaluation of organ systems, including
hematopoietic, perform renal and hepatic studies

Fixed drug eruptions reported and have been associated with worsening severity upon
subsequent administrations, including generalized bullous fixed drug eruption; if severe
skin reactions occur, discontinue therapy immediately and institute appropriate therapy

Drug interaction overview

Because tetracyclines have been shown to depress plasma prothrombin activity,
patients who are on anticoagulant therapy may require downward adjustment of
their anticoagulant dosage

Since bacteriostatic drugs may interfere with the bactericidal action of penicillin, it is
advisable to avoid giving tetracyclines in conjunction with penicillin

Absorption of tetracyclines is impaired by antacids containing aluminum, calcium, or
magnesium, bismuth subsalicylate, and iron-containing preparations

Concurrent use of tetracyclines, may render oral contraceptives less effective

Barbiturates, carbamazepine, and phenytoin decrease the half-life of doxycycline

Coadministration of tetracycline and methoxyflurane has been reported to result in
fatal renal toxicity

False elevations of urinary catecholamines may occur due to interference with the
fluorescence test

Pregnancy & Lactation

Pregnancy

Therapy may cause discoloration deciduous teeth, and reversible inhibition of bone
growth when administered during second and third trimester of pregnancy, infancy, and
childhood

All tetracyclines form a stable calcium complex in any bone-forming tissue; a decrease in
fibula growth rate has been observed in premature human infants given oral tetracycline
in doses of 25 mg/kg every 6 hours; this reaction was shown to be reversible when drug
was discontinued

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/vibramycin-doryx-doxycycline-342548 22/26



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Vibramycin, Doryx (doxycycline) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Available data from published studies over decades have not shown a difference in
major birth defect risk compared to unexposed pregnancies with doxycycline exposure in
first trimester of pregnancy

The vast majority of reported experience during human pregnancy is short-term, first
trimester exposure; there are no human data available to assess effects of long-term
therapy in pregnant women such as that proposed for treatment of anthrax exposure

An expert review of published data on experiences with doxycycline use during
pregnancy concluded that therapeutic doses during pregnancy are unlikely to pose
substantial teratogenic risk (the quantity and quality of data were assessed as limited to
fair), but the data are insufficient to state that there is no risk; there are no adequate and
well-controlled studies on use of drug in pregnant women

A small prospective study of 81 pregnancies describes 43 pregnant women treated for
10 days with doxycycline during early first trimester; all mothers reported their exposed
infants were normal at 1 year of age

There are no available data on risk of miscarriage following exposure to doxycycline in
pregnancy; evidence of embryotoxicity also has been noted in animals treated early in
pregnancy; advise patient of potential risk to fetus if drug is used during pregnancy

Based on findings from a fertility study in animals, doxycycline may impair female and
male fertility; the reversibility of this finding is unclear

Lactation

Based on available published data, doxycycline is present in human milk; there are no
data that inform about levels of doxycycline in breastmilk, effects on breastfed infant, or
on milk production

Short-term use by lactating women not necessarily contraindicated; effects of prolonged
exposure to doxycycline in breast milk are unknown; because of potential for serious
adverse reactions in nursing infants from drug, the developmental and health benefits of
breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother’s clinical need for this
medication and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed child from the drug or
from the underlying maternal condition

Pregnancy Categories

A: Generally acceptable. Controlled studies in pregnant women show no evidence of
fetal risk.

B: May be acceptable. Either animal studies show no risk but human studies not available
or animal studies showed minor risks and human studies done and showed no risk.

C: Use with caution if benefits outweigh risks. Animal studies show risk and human
studies not available or neither animal nor human studies done.

D: Use in LIFE-THREATENING emergencies when no safer drug available. Positive
evidence of human fetal risk.

X: Do not use in pregnancy. Risks involved outweigh potential benefits. Safer alternatives
exist.

NA: Information not available.

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/vibramycin-doryx-doxycycline-342548 23/26



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Vibramycin, Doryx (doxycycline) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Pharmacology

Mechanism of Action

Inhibits protein synthesis and, thus, bacterial growth by binding to 30S and possibly 50S
ribosomal subunits of susceptible bacteria; may block dissociation of peptidyl t-RNA
from ribosomes, causing RNA-dependent protein synthesis to arrest.

Absorption

Oral: Almost complete; reduced 20% by food or milk

Peak serum time: 1.5-4 hr

Bioavailability: Reduced at high pH

Distribution

Protein bound: 90%

Metabolism

Liver

Elimination

Half-life: 15-25 hr

Excretion: Urine (23%); feces (30%)

Administration

Oral Administration

Absorption decreased when taken with food, particularly food containing calcium

Doryx MPC, delayed-release tablet

Do not substitute on a mg-per-mg basis with other oral doxycyclines because of
differing bioavailability

Do not chew or crush tablets

The recommended dosage, frequency of administration, and weight-based dosage
recommendations differ from that of other doxycyclines; exceed the recommended
dose may increase incidence of adverse effects

Administer with adequate amount of fluid to was down the drug and reduce risk of
esophageal irritation/ulceration

Switching from Doryx to Doryx MPC
Doryx MPC 60 mg replaces Doryx 50 mg

Doryx MPC 120 mg replaces Doryx 100 mg

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/vibramycin-doryx-doxycycline-342548 24/26



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Vibramycin, Doryx (doxycycline) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

IV Incompatibilities

Additive: Meropenem (comp at 1 g/L mero and 200 mg/L doxy; incomp at 20 g/L and 200
mg/L doxy)

Y-site: Allopurinol, heparin, piperacillin/tazobactam

IV Compatibilities

Solution: D5W, NS

Additive: Ranitidine

Syringe: Doxapram

Y-site (partial list): Acyclovir, amiodarone, aztreonam, hydromorphone, linezolid, MgSO4,
meperidine, meropenem (comp at 1 mg/mL mero and 1 mg/mL doxy; incomp at 50
mg/mL mero and 1 mg/mL doxy), morphine SO4, propofol, remifentanil

IV Preparation

For IV infusion dilute to a final concentration of 0.1-1 mg/mL w/ NS, D5W, LR, or D5/LR

IV Administration

Administer by slow IV infusion, usually over 1-2 hr

Use central line if possible

Avoid rapid administration

Other parenteral routes not recommended

Periodontal Preparation (Atridox)

If refrigerated, remove Atridox from refrigeration at least 15 minutes prior to mixing

Inject liquid contents of Syringe A (indicated by red stripe) into Syringe B (doxycycline
powder) and then push the contents back into Syringe A

Complete 100 mixing cycles at a pace of 1 cycle per second using brisk strokes

Subgingival Administration (Atridox)

Does not require local anesthesia for subgingival placement

If desired, using an appropriate dental instrument, may be packed into the pocket

Dipping the edge of the instrument in water before packing will help keep Atridox from
sticking to the instrument, and will help speed coagulation of Atridox

A few drops of water dripped onto the surface of Atridox once in the pocket will also aid
in coagulation; if necessary, add more Atridox as described above and pack it into the
pocket until the pocket is full

Storage

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/vibramycin-doryx-doxycycline-342548 25/26



6/22/26, 8:09 PM Vibramycin, Doryx (doxycycline) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Tablets or capsules: Store at 20-25ºC (68-77ºF) excursions permitted to 15-30ºC (59-
86ºF); protect from light and moisture; dispense in a tight, light-resistant container

Atridox: Store at 2-30ºC (36-86ºF)

Vibramycin (all formulations): Store <30ºC (86ºF) and dispensed in tight, light-resistant
containers

Formulary

Adding plans allows you to compare formulary status to other drugs in the same class.

Formulary information is available for health plans only in the United States.

Medscape prescription drug monographs are based on FDA-approved labeling information, unless otherwise noted,
combined with additional data derived from primary medical literature.

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/vibramycin-doryx-doxycycline-342548 26/26