6/22/26, 5:20 PM Ozempic, Rybelsus, Wegovy (semaglutide) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
This site is intended for healthcare professionals

semaglutide (Rx)
Brand and Other Names: Ozempic, Rybelsus, Wegovy, Wegovy HD
Classes: Antidiabetics, Glucagon-like Peptide-1 Agonists

Dosing & Uses

ADULT
Dosage Forms & Strengths

injection, prefilled, single-dose pen (Ozempic)

2mg/3mL (0.68mg/mL); delivers doses of 0.25mg or 0.5mg per injection

4mg/3mL (1.34mg/mL); delivers 1mg per injection

8mg/3mL (2.68 mg/mL); delivers 2mg per injection

injection, prefilled, single-dose syringe (Ozempic)

0.25mg/0.5mL

0.5mg/0.5mL

1mg/0.5mL

injection, prefilled, single-dose pen or syringe (Wegovy)

0.25mg/0.5mL

0.5mg/0.5mL

1mg/0.5mL

1.7mg/0.75mL

2.4mg/0.75mL

injection, prefilled, single-dose pen (Wegovy HD)

7.2mg/0.75mL

tablet (Wegovy)

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/ozempic-rybelsus-wegovy-semaglutide-1000174 1/22



6/22/26, 5:20 PM Ozempic, Rybelsus, Wegovy (semaglutide) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

1.5mg

4mg

9mg

25mg

oral oval tablet (Rybelsus)

3mg

7mg

14mg

oral round tablet (Ozempic)

1.5mg

4mg

9mg

Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus

Indications for SC (Ozempic)

As an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2
diabetes mellitus (T2DM)

To reduce risk of major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) (eg, cardiovascular
death, nonfatal myocardial infarction, nonfatal stroke) in adults with T2DM who are
at high risk for these events

To reduce risk of sustained eGFR decline, end-stage kidney disease, and
cardiovascular death in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus and chronic kidney
disease (CKD)

SC dosage initiation
0.25 mg SC once weekly x 4 weeks

After 4 weeks, increase to 0.5 mg once weekly

SC maintenance dosage for glycemic control
Recommended maintenance dosage is 0.5 mg, 1 mg, or 2 mg SC once weekly,
based on glycemic control

If additional glycemic control is needed after at least 4 weeks, may increase as
follows

Taking 0.5 mg/week: May increase to 1 mg/week

Taking 1 mg/week: May increase to 2 mg/week

Maximum recommended dose: 2 mg/week

SC maintenance dosage for patients with T2DM and CKD
After at least 4 weeks on 0.5 mg/week, increase to maintenance dose of 1
mg/week

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/ozempic-rybelsus-wegovy-semaglutide-1000174 2/22



6/22/26, 5:20 PM Ozempic, Rybelsus, Wegovy (semaglutide) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Indications for oral (Rybelsus or Ozempic tablets)

As an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with T2DM

To reduce risk of major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) in adults with T2DM
who are at high risk for these events

General oral dose information
Rybelsus and Ozempic tablets are not substitutable on a mg-per-mg basis

Use either Rybelsus or Ozempic tablets; do NOT use both formulations
simultaneously

Do NOT take more >1 tablet/day

To reduce risk of GI adverse effects, follow recommended initiation, escalation,
and maintenance dosing regimens

Rybelsus PO dose
Initiation phase (Days 1-30): 3 mg PO once daily x30 days; this dose is not
effective for glycemic control

Days 31-60: Increase to 7 mg PO once daily

Day 61 and thereafter: Maintain dose at 7 mg/day, or may increase to 14 mg
PO daily if additional glycemic control needed

Ozempic PO dose
Initiation phase (Days 1-30): 1.5 mg PO once daily; this dose is not effective for
glycemic control

Days 31-60: Increase to 4 mg PO once daily

Day 61 and thereafter: Maintain dose at 4 mg/day, or may increase to 9 PO
daily if additional glycemic control needed

Switching between Rybelsus and Ozempic tablets
Do not switch during initiation phase (Days 1-30)

May switch between Rybelsus and Ozempic PO after 30 days

When switching, initiate other semaglutide tablet the day after discontinuing
previous product

May switch between Rybelsus 7 mg and Ozempic 4 mg

May switch between Rybelsus 14 mg and Ozempic 9 mg

Switching from Ozempic (SC) to Rybelsus (PO)

Patients taking 0.5 mg SC may switch to tablets

From Ozempic SC to Rybelsus PO: 1 week after discontinuing 0.5 mg SC, start 7
mg or 14 mg PO daily

From Ozempic SC to Ozempic PO: 1 week after discontinuing 0.5 mg SC, start 4 mg
or 9 mg PO daily

Recommendations are unavailable if taking Ozempic 0.25 mg, 1 mg, or 2 mg SC
weekly

Weight Management

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/ozempic-rybelsus-wegovy-semaglutide-1000174 3/22



6/22/26, 5:20 PM Ozempic, Rybelsus, Wegovy (semaglutide) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Wegovy SC or PO

Indicated in combination with a reduced calorie diet and increased physical activity to

reduce

Risk of major adverse cardiovascular (CV) events (CV death, nonfatal myocardial
infarction, or nonfatal stroke) in adults with established CV disease and either
obesity or overweight

Excess body weight and maintain weight reduction long term in adults with obesity,
or in adults who are overweight in presence of at ≥1 weight-related comorbid
condition

Dosage

Initiate with low dose and gradually escalate to maintenance dose of 2.4 mg/week
SC or 25 mg/day PO to minimize GI adverse reactions

If unable to tolerate a dose during escalation, consider delaying dose escalation

In patients with type 2 diabetes, monitor blood glucose before initiating and during
treatment

Once weekly SC dose escalation schedule
Weeks 1-4: 0.25 mg

Weeks 5-8: 0.5 mg

Weeks 9-12: 1 mg

Week 13-16: 1.7 mg

Once weekly SC maintenance dose
Week 17 and onward: 1.7 mg or 2.4 mg (maintenance)

Patients who tolerate 2.4 mg for at least 4 weeks and additional weight
reduction is clinically indicated may increase to maximum dose of 7.2 mg SC
once weekly

Consider treatment response and tolerability when selecting maintenance
dosage

PO dose escalation schedule
Days 1-30: 1.5 mg PO once daily

Days 31-60: 4 mg PO once daily

Days 61-90: 9 mg PO once daily

Day 91 and onward: 25 mg PO once daily (maintenance)

If 25 mg PO once daily maintenance dosage not tolerated, consider switching
to 1.7 mg SC once weekly

Switching between Wegovy injection and Wegovy tablets

Switch from injection to tablets
Taking 2.4 mg SC: Switch to 25 mg PO

Initiate 25 mg PO 1 week after discontinuing 2.4 mg SC

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/ozempic-rybelsus-wegovy-semaglutide-1000174 4/22



6/22/26, 5:20 PM Ozempic, Rybelsus, Wegovy (semaglutide) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Switch from tablets to injection
Taking 25 mg PO once daily: Switch to 2.4 mg SC; consider 1.7 mg SC in
patients not tolerating 25 mg PO

Initiate 2.4 mg SC 1 day after discontinuing 25 mg PO

If additional weight reduction is needed in patients with T2DM treated with 25
mg PO, consider switching to 1.7 mg SC and follow recommended dose
escalation for SC

Noncirrhotic Metabolic Dysfunction-associated Steatohepatitis

Wegovy SC only

Indicated in combination with a reduced calorie diet and increased physical activity for
treatment of noncirrhotic metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH),
formerly known as nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), with moderate to advanced
liver fibrosis (consistent with stages F2 to F3 fibrosis)

Initiate with low dose and gradually escalate to maintenance dose of 2.4 mg/week SC to
minimize GI adverse reactions

If unable to tolerate a dose during escalation, consider delaying dose escalation for 4
weeks

Once weekly SC dose escalation schedule

Weeks 1-4: 0.25 mg

Weeks 5-8: 0.5 mg

Weeks 9-12: 1 mg

Weeks 13-16: 1.7 mg

Maintenance dose

Weeks 17 and onward: 2.4 mg SC weekly

If unable to tolerate 2.4 mg/week, may decrease to 1.7 mg weekly; consider
reescalation to 2.4 mg once weekly

Dosage Modifications

Renal or hepatic impairment

No dosage adjustment required

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/ozempic-rybelsus-wegovy-semaglutide-1000174 5/22



6/22/26, 5:20 PM Ozempic, Rybelsus, Wegovy (semaglutide) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Upper GI tract disease

PO: No dosage adjustment required

Dosing Considerations

Limitations of use

Not studied in patients with a history of pancreatitis

Ozempic, Rybelsus (T2DM)
SC semaglutide is not a substitute for insulin

Not indicated for type 1 diabetes mellitus or for treatment of diabetic
ketoacidosis, as it would not be effective in these settings

Wegovy (weight management)
Contains semaglutide and should not be coadministered with other
semaglutide-containing products or with any other GLP-1 receptor agonist

Safety and effectiveness in combination with other products intended for
weight loss, including prescription drugs, OTC drugs, and herbal preparations,
have not been established

PEDIATRIC
Dosage Forms & Strengths

injection, prefilled, single-dose pen (Wegovy)

0.25mg/0.5mL

0.5mg/0.5mL

1mg/0.5mL

1.7mg/0.75mL

2.4mg/0.75mL

Weight Management

Wegovy SC only

Indicated as an adjunct to a reduced calorie diet and increased physical activity to reduce
excess body weight and maintain weight reduction long term in pediatric patients aged
≥12 years with obesity

Dosage

Initiate with low dose and gradually escalate to maintenance dose of 2.4 mg/week
SC to minimize GI adverse reactions

If unable to tolerate a dose during escalation, consider delaying dose escalation

In patients with type 2 diabetes, monitor blood glucose before initiating and during
treatment

Once weekly SC dose escalation schedule

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/ozempic-rybelsus-wegovy-semaglutide-1000174 6/22



6/22/26, 5:20 PM Ozempic, Rybelsus, Wegovy (semaglutide) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Weeks 1-4: 0.25 mg

Weeks 5-8: 0.5 mg

Weeks 9-12: 1 mg

Week 13-16: 1.7 mg

Week 17 and onward: 1.7 mg or 2.4 mg (maintenance)

Dosage Modifications

Renal impairment

All severities, including end-stage renal disease: No dosage adjustment necessary

Hepatic impairment

All severities: No dosage adjustment necessary

Dosing Considerations

Limitations of use

Safety and effectiveness of semaglutide injection have not been established in
pediatric patients to reduce the risk of major adverse CV events (clinical trials for
this indication are highly impracticable because of the low prevalence of the
condition in pediatric patients), to reduce excess body weight and maintain weight
reduction long term with the 7.2 mg once weekly dosage, to reduce excess body
weight and maintain weight reduction long term in those less than 12 years of age,
for the treatment of noncirrhotic MASH

Wegovy
Do NOT combine with other semaglutide-containing products or with any
other GLP-1 receptor agonist

Safety and effectiveness in combination with other products intended for
weight loss, including prescription drugs, OTC drugs, and herbal preparations,
not established

Not studied in patients with a history of pancreatitis

Interactions

Interaction Checker

Enter a drug name to check for any interactions. Type a drug, OTC, or herbal  and
semaglutide
No Interactions Found

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/ozempic-rybelsus-wegovy-semaglutide-1000174 7/22



6/22/26, 5:20 PM Ozempic, Rybelsus, Wegovy (semaglutide) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
Interactions Found
Contraindicated

Serious

Significant - Monitor Closely

Minor

All Interactions Sort By: Severity
Contraindicated (0)

Serious (0)

Monitor Closely (24)

glimepiride
semaglutide, glimepiride. Either increases effects of the other by pharmacodynamic
synergism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Coadministration of insulin
secretagogues with GLP-1 agonists may increase hypoglycemia risk. Lowering the
insulin secretagogue dose may reduce hypoglycemia risk. .

glipizide
semaglutide, glipizide. Either increases effects of the other by pharmacodynamic
synergism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Coadministration of insulin
secretagogues with GLP-1 agonists may increase hypoglycemia risk. Lowering the
insulin secretagogue dose may reduce hypoglycemia risk. .

glyburide
semaglutide, glyburide. Either increases effects of the other by pharmacodynamic
synergism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Coadministration of insulin
secretagogues with GLP-1 agonists may increase hypoglycemia risk. Lowering the
insulin secretagogue dose may reduce hypoglycemia risk. .

ifosfamide
ifosfamide, semaglutide. Either increases toxicity of the other by nephrotoxicity
and/or ototoxicity. Use Caution/Monitor. Monitor renal function.

insulin aspart
semaglutide, insulin aspart. Either increases effects of the other by
pharmacodynamic synergism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Coadministration of
insulin with GLP-1 agonists may increase hypoglycemia risk. Lowering the insulin
dose may reduce hypoglycemia risk.

insulin aspart protamine/insulin aspart
semaglutide, insulin aspart protamine/insulin aspart. Either increases effects of the
other by pharmacodynamic synergism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/ozempic-rybelsus-wegovy-semaglutide-1000174 8/22



6/22/26, 5:20 PM Ozempic, Rybelsus, Wegovy (semaglutide) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Coadministration of insulin with GLP-1 agonists may increase hypoglycemia risk.
Lowering the insulin dose may reduce hypoglycemia risk.

insulin degludec
semaglutide, insulin degludec. Either increases effects of the other by
pharmacodynamic synergism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Coadministration of
insulin with GLP-1 agonists may increase hypoglycemia risk. Lowering the insulin
dose may reduce hypoglycemia risk.

insulin detemir
semaglutide, insulin detemir. Either increases effects of the other by
pharmacodynamic synergism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Coadministration of
insulin with GLP-1 agonists may increase hypoglycemia risk. Lowering the insulin
dose may reduce hypoglycemia risk.

insulin glargine
semaglutide, insulin glargine. Either increases effects of the other by
pharmacodynamic synergism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Coadministration of
insulin with GLP-1 agonists may increase hypoglycemia risk. Lowering the insulin
dose may reduce hypoglycemia risk.

insulin glulisine
semaglutide, insulin glulisine. Either increases effects of the other by
pharmacodynamic synergism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Coadministration of
insulin with GLP-1 agonists may increase hypoglycemia risk. Lowering the insulin
dose may reduce hypoglycemia risk.

insulin icodec
semaglutide, insulin icodec. Either increases effects of the other by
pharmacodynamic synergism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Consider dose
adjustment when insulin is coadministered with a GLP-1 agonist; concomitant use
may require increased glucose monitoring.

insulin inhaled
semaglutide, insulin inhaled. Either increases effects of the other by
pharmacodynamic synergism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Coadministration of
insulin with GLP-1 agonists may increase hypoglycemia risk. Lowering the insulin
dose may reduce hypoglycemia risk.

insulin isophane human/insulin regular human
semaglutide, insulin isophane human/insulin regular human. Either increases effects
of the other by pharmacodynamic synergism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.
Coadministration of insulin with GLP-1 agonists may increase hypoglycemia risk.
Lowering the insulin dose may reduce hypoglycemia risk.

insulin lispro
semaglutide, insulin lispro. Either increases effects of the other by
pharmacodynamic synergism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Coadministration of
insulin with GLP-1 agonists may increase hypoglycemia risk. Lowering the insulin
dose may reduce hypoglycemia risk.

insulin lispro protamine/insulin lispro

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/ozempic-rybelsus-wegovy-semaglutide-1000174 9/22



6/22/26, 5:20 PM Ozempic, Rybelsus, Wegovy (semaglutide) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

semaglutide, insulin lispro protamine/insulin lispro. Either increases effects of the
other by pharmacodynamic synergism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.
Coadministration of insulin with GLP-1 agonists may increase hypoglycemia risk.
Lowering the insulin dose may reduce hypoglycemia risk.

insulin NPH
semaglutide, insulin NPH. Either increases effects of the other by pharmacodynamic
synergism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Coadministration of insulin with GLP-1
agonists may increase hypoglycemia risk. Lowering the insulin dose may reduce
hypoglycemia risk.

insulin regular human
semaglutide, insulin regular human. Either increases effects of the other by
pharmacodynamic synergism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Coadministration of
insulin with GLP-1 agonists may increase hypoglycemia risk. Lowering the insulin
dose may reduce hypoglycemia risk.

lonapegsomatropin
lonapegsomatropin decreases effects of semaglutide by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: Closely monitor blood glucose when treated with
antidiabetic agents. Lonapegsomatropin may decrease insulin sensitivity,
particularly at higher doses. Patients with diabetes mellitus may require adjustment
of their doses of insulin and/or other antihyperglycemic agents.

lonapegsomatropin decreases effects of semaglutide by pharmacodynamic
antagonism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Growth hormone (GH) analogs may
decrease insulin sensitivity, particularly at higher doses. Antidiabetic agents may
require dose adjustment after initiating growth hormone.

metformin
semaglutide, metformin. Either increases effects of the other by pharmacodynamic
synergism. Use Caution/Monitor. Antidiabetic agents are often used in combination;
dosage adjustments may be required when initiating or discontinuing antidiabetic
agents.

nateglinide
semaglutide, nateglinide. Either increases effects of the other by pharmacodynamic
synergism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Coadministration of insulin
secretagogues with GLP-1 agonists may increase hypoglycemia risk. Lowering the
insulin secretagogue dose may reduce hypoglycemia risk. .

repaglinide
semaglutide, repaglinide. Either increases effects of the other by pharmacodynamic
synergism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Coadministration of insulin
secretagogues with GLP-1 agonists may increase hypoglycemia risk. Lowering the
insulin secretagogue dose may reduce hypoglycemia risk. .

somapacitan
somapacitan decreases effects of semaglutide by pharmacodynamic antagonism.
Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Growth hormone (GH) analogs may decrease
insulin sensitivity, particularly at higher doses. Antidiabetic agents may require dose
adjustment after initiating growth hormone.

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/ozempic-rybelsus-wegovy-semaglutide-1000174 10/22



6/22/26, 5:20 PM Ozempic, Rybelsus, Wegovy (semaglutide) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

somatrogon
somatrogon decreases effects of semaglutide by pharmacodynamic antagonism.
Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Growth hormone (GH) analogs may decrease
insulin sensitivity, particularly at higher doses. Antidiabetic agents may require dose
adjustment after initiating growth hormone.

somatropin
somatropin decreases effects of semaglutide by pharmacodynamic antagonism.
Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Growth hormone (GH) analogs may decrease
insulin sensitivity, particularly at higher doses. Antidiabetic agents may require dose
adjustment after initiating growth hormone.

Minor (0)

Adverse Effects

>10%

(SC, Ozempic)

Nausea (15.8-20.3%)

Documented symptomatic hypoglycemia, adjunctive therapy [≤70 mg/dL glucose
threshold] (16.7-29.8%)

Severe or symptomatic hypoglycemia, adjunctive therapy [≤56 mg/dL glucose
threshold] (8.3-10.7%)

(SC, Wegovy)

Nausea (44%)

Diarrhea (30%)

Vomiting (24%)

Constipation (24%)

Abdominal pain (20%)

Headache (14%)

Fatigue (11%)

(PO)

Nausea (11-20%)

Abdominal pain (10-11%)

1-10%

(SC, Ozempic)

Vomiting (5-9.2%)

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/ozempic-rybelsus-wegovy-semaglutide-1000174 11/22



6/22/26, 5:20 PM Ozempic, Rybelsus, Wegovy (semaglutide) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Diarrhea (8.5-8.8%)

Abdominal pain (5.7-7.3%)

Constipation (3.1-5%)

Dyspepsia (2.7-3.5%)

Eructation (1.1-2.7%)

Documented symptomatic hypoglycemia, monotherapy [≤70 mg/dL glucose
threshold] (1.6-3.8%)

Flatulence (0.4-1.5%)

GERD (1.5-1.9%)

(SC, Wegovy)

Dyspepsia (9%)

Dizziness (8%)

Abdominal distension (7%)

Eructation (7%)

Retinal disorders (6.9%)

Hypoglycemia in T2DM (6%)

Flatulence (6%)

Gastroenteritis (6%)

GERD (5%)

Gastritis (4%)

Gastroenteritis viral (4%)

Hair loss (3%)

Cholelithiasis (1.6%)

Injection site reactions (1.4%)

(PO)

Diarrhea (9-10%)

Decreased appetite (6-9%)

Vomiting (6-8%)

Constipation (5-6%)

Abdominal distension (2-3%)

Dyspepsia (0.6-3%)

GERD (2%)

Gastritis (2%)

Eructation (0.6-2%)

Flatulence (1-2%)

Cholelithiasis (1%)

<1%

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/ozempic-rybelsus-wegovy-semaglutide-1000174 12/22



6/22/26, 5:20 PM Ozempic, Rybelsus, Wegovy (semaglutide) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

(SC, Ozempic)

Gastritis (0.4-0.8%)

Cholelithiasis (0.4%)

Fatigue (>0.4%)

Dysgeusia (>0.4%)

Dizziness (>0.4%)

Injection site reaction (0.2%)

(SC, Wegovy)

Hypotension and syncope

Appendicitis

Acute kidney injury

Cholecystitis

Frequency Not Defined

PO

Increased amylase and lipase

Increased HR

Hypersensitivity: Anaphylaxis, angioedema, rash, urticaria

Postmarketing Reports

Gastrointestinal disorders: Ileus, acute pancreatitis and necrotizing pancreatitis,
sometimes resulting in death; intestinal obstruction, severe constipation, including fecal
impaction

Hypersensitivity: Anaphylaxis, angioedema, rash, urticaria

Renal and urinary disorders: Acute kidney injury

Hepatobiliary: Cholecystitis, cholelithiasis requiring cholecystectomy

Nervous system disorders: Dizziness, dysgeusia

Pulmonary: Pulmonary aspiration in patients receiving GLP-1 receptor agonists
undergoing elective surgeries or procedures requiring general anesthesia or deep
sedation

Warnings

Black Box Warnings

In rodents, semaglutide causes dose-dependent and treatment-duration-dependent
thyroid C-cell tumors at clinically relevant exposures; unknown whether semaglutide
causes thyroid C-cell tumors, including medullary thyroid carcinoma (MTC), in humans as

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/ozempic-rybelsus-wegovy-semaglutide-1000174 13/22



6/22/26, 5:20 PM Ozempic, Rybelsus, Wegovy (semaglutide) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

human relevance of semaglutide-induced rodent thyroid C-cell tumors has not been
determined

Contraindicated in patients with a personal or family history of MTC or in patients with
multiple endocrine neoplasia syndrome type 2

Advise patients of the potential risk for MTC with semaglutide and the possible
symptoms of thyroid tumors (eg, a mass in the neck, dysphagia, dyspnea, persistent
hoarseness)

Routine monitoring of serum calcitonin or using thyroid ultrasound is of uncertain value
for early detection of MTC in patients treated with semaglutide

Contraindications

Personal or family history of MTC or in patients with multiple endocrine neoplasia
syndrome type 2

Known hypersensitivity to semaglutide or to any of the product components

Cautions

Risk of thyroid C-cell tumors

Based on findings in rats and mice, semaglutide may cause thyroid C-cell tumors,
including MTC

See Boxed Warning above

Acute pancreatitis

Acute pancreatitis, including fatal and nonfatal hemorrhagic or necrotizing
pancreatitis, observed in patients treated with GLP 1 receptor agonists

After initiating treatment, monitor for signs and symptoms of pancreatitis (eg,
persistent severe abdominal pain, sometimes radiating to the back and which may
or may not be accompanied by vomiting); if pancreatitis suspected, discontinue
semaglutide and do not restart if confirmed

Diabetic retinopathy complications

Has been reported in a cardiovascular outcomes trial with semaglutide injection

Rapid improvement in glucose control has been associated with a temporary
worsening of diabetic retinopathy

Patients with a history of diabetic retinopathy should be monitored for progression
of diabetic retinopathy

Acute kidney injury due to volume depletion

There have been postmarketing reports of acute kidney injury in some cases
requiring hemodialysis, in patients treated with semaglutide

Majority of reported events occurred in patients who experienced gastrointestinal
reactions leading to dehydration

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/ozempic-rybelsus-wegovy-semaglutide-1000174 14/22



6/22/26, 5:20 PM Ozempic, Rybelsus, Wegovy (semaglutide) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Monitor renal function in patients reporting adverse reactions that could lead to
volume depletion

Severe gastrointestinal adverse reaction

Use associated with gastrointestinal adverse reactions, sometimes severe

Not recommended in patients with severe gastroparesis

Hypersensitivity reactions

Serious hypersensitivity reactions (eg, anaphylaxis and angioedema) reported

Discontinue if hypersensitivity reactions occur and monitor until signs and
symptoms resolve

Acute gallbladder disease

Cholelithiasis or cholecystitis reported in clinical trials and postmarketing with GLP-
1 receptor agonists

If suspected, gallbladder studies and appropriate clinical follow-up are indicated

Pulmonary aspirations

GLP-1 agonists delay gastric emptying

There have been rare postmarketing reports of pulmonary aspiration in patients
receiving GLP-1 receptor agonists undergoing elective surgeries or procedures
requiring general anesthesia or deep sedation who had residual gastric contents
despite reported adherence to preoperative fasting recommendations

Available data are insufficient to inform recommendations to mitigate risk of
pulmonary aspiration during general anesthesia or deep sedation in patients
receiving therapy, including whether modifying preoperative fasting
recommendations or temporarily discontinuing therapy could reduce incidence of
retained gastric contents; instruct patients to inform healthcare providers prior to
any planned surgeries or procedures if they are receiving this therapy

Heart rate increase

Treatment with Wegovy was associated with increases in resting heart rate

Mean increases in resting heart rate of 1-4 bpm observed in injection-treated adult
patients compared to placebo in clinical trials for weight reduction

Monitor heart rate at regular intervals consistent with usual clinical practice

Instruct patients to inform their healthcare providers of palpitations or feelings of a
racing heartbeat while at rest

Never share SC pen between patients

Never share pen between patients, even if needle is changed

Pen-sharing poses a risk for transmission of blood-borne pathogens

FDA MedWatch Alerts

Dosing errors with compounded injectable products

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/ozempic-rybelsus-wegovy-semaglutide-1000174 15/22



6/22/26, 5:20 PM Ozempic, Rybelsus, Wegovy (semaglutide) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

In July 2024, FDA reported dosing errors associated with compounded
semaglutide injectable products

Only use compounded products in patients with medical needs that cannot be
met by available FDA-approved products due to risk of medication dosing
errors and adverse events (eg, GI effects, fainting, acute pancreatitis,
gallstones)

Some dosing errors attributed to unfamiliarity with withdrawing medication
from vials into syringes and confusion between different units of measurement
(eg, mL, mg, units)

Provide patients with appropriate syringe size for intended dose and counsel
on how to measure intended dose using the syringe

Report adverse events and medication errors associated with compounded
semaglutide products to FDA MedWatch Adverse Event Reporting program

Drug interactions overview

Coadministration with insulin secretagogues (eg, sulfonylureas) or insulin may
increase the risk of hypoglycemia; consider a lower dose of the secretagogue or
insulin to reduce risk of hypoglycemia in this setting; inform patients using
concomitant medications of risk of hypoglycemia and educate them on signs and
symptoms of hypoglycemia

Exercise caution when semaglutide is concomitantly administered with oral
medications; semaglutide causes a delay of gastric emptying, thereby potentially
impacting oral absorption of such medications

Pregnancy & Lactation

Pregnancy

There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in women
exposed to this drug during pregnancy; pregnant women exposed to this drug and
healthcare providers are encouraged to contact Novo Nordisk at 1-877-390-2760 or
www.wegovypregnancyregistry.com

Weight loss offers no benefit to a pregnant patient and may cause fetal harm; when a
pregnancy is recognized, advise the pregnant patient of the risk to a fetus; discontinue
therapy in pregnant patients who are using it for weight reduction

There may be risks to the mother and fetus related to underlying MASH with advanced
liver fibrosis; whether treatment during pregnancy reduces these risks is unknown; for
the treatment of MASH with advanced liver fibrosis should be used during pregnancy
only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus

Appropriate weight gain based on pre-pregnancy weight is currently recommended for
all pregnant patients, including those who already have overweight or obesity, because
of the obligatory weight gain that occurs in maternal tissues during pregnancy

There may be risks to the mother and fetus related to MASH with advanced liver fibrosis,
such as increased risks of gestational diabetes, hypertensive complications, preterm

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/ozempic-rybelsus-wegovy-semaglutide-1000174 16/22



6/22/26, 5:20 PM Ozempic, Rybelsus, Wegovy (semaglutide) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

birth, and postpartum hemorrhage; the effect of this drug on these risks is unknown

Because of the potential for fetal harm, discontinue therapy in patients at least 2 months
before they plan to become pregnant to account for the long half-life of semaglutide

Animal data

Based on animal reproduction studies, there may be potential risks to the fetus from
exposure to semaglutide during pregnancy; available pharmacovigilance data and
data from clinical trials with use in pregnant patients are insufficient to establish a
drug-associated risk of major birth defects, miscarriage or adverse maternal or fetal
outcomes

In pregnant rats administered semaglutide during organogenesis, embryofetal
mortality, structural abnormalities and alterations to growth occurred at clinically
relevant maternal exposures at the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD)
of subcutaneous injection 7.2 mg/week, based on AUC; in pregnant rabbits and
cynomolgus monkeys administered semaglutide during organogenesis, early
pregnancy losses and structural abnormalities were observed in rabbits and
monkeys at clinically relevant exposures; these findings coincided with a marked
maternal body weight loss in both animal species

Lactation

Data from a clinical lactation study with semaglutide oral tablet formulation reported
semaglutide concentrations below the lower limit of quantification in human milk;
however, SNAC and/or its metabolites are present in human milk; since the activity of
enzymes involved in SNAC clearance may be lower in infants compared to adults, higher
SNAC plasma levels may occur in neonates and infants

Because of the unknown potential for serious adverse reactions in breastfed infant due
to possible accumulation of SNAC, and because there are alternative formulations of
semaglutide that do not contain SNAC that can be used during lactation, advise patients
that breastfeeding is not recommended during treatment with this drug; there are no
data on presence of subcutaneously administered semaglutide or its metabolites in
human milk, effects on breastfed infant, or on milk production

The subcutaneous injection does not contain the SNAC metabolites; the developmental
and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother’s
clinical need for therapy and any potential adverse effects on the breastfed infant from
this drug or from the underlying maternal condition

Clinical Considerations

Ozempic, Rybelsus
Hypoglycemia and hyperglycemia occur more frequently during pregnancy in
patients with pre-gestational diabetes; poorly controlled diabetes during
pregnancy increases maternal risk for diabetic ketoacidosis, preeclampsia,
spontaneous abortions, preterm delivery, stillbirth, and delivery complications

Poorly controlled diabetes increases fetal risk for major birth defects, stillbirth,
and macrosomia-related morbidity

Wegovy

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/ozempic-rybelsus-wegovy-semaglutide-1000174 17/22



6/22/26, 5:20 PM Ozempic, Rybelsus, Wegovy (semaglutide) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Appropriate weight gain based on prepregnancy weight is currently
recommended for all pregnant patients, including those who already are
overweight or obese, because of the obligatory weight gain that occurs in
maternal tissues during pregnancy

Pregnancy Categories

A: Generally acceptable. Controlled studies in pregnant women show no evidence of
fetal risk.

B: May be acceptable. Either animal studies show no risk but human studies not available
or animal studies showed minor risks and human studies done and showed no risk.

C: Use with caution if benefits outweigh risks. Animal studies show risk and human
studies not available or neither animal nor human studies done.

D: Use in LIFE-THREATENING emergencies when no safer drug available. Positive
evidence of human fetal risk.

X: Do not use in pregnancy. Risks involved outweigh potential benefits. Safer alternatives
exist.

NA: Information not available.

Pharmacology

Mechanism of Action

Glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) agonist

Diabetes type 2: Incretins, such as GLP-1, enhance glucose-dependent insulin secretion
by pancreatic beta-cells, suppress inappropriately elevated glucagon secretion, and slow
gastric emptying

Weight management: GLP-1 is a physiological regulator of appetite and caloric intake,
and the GLP-1 receptor is present in several areas of the brain involved in appetite
regulation

Absorption

SC

Bioavailability: 89%

Peak plasma time: 1-3 days

Plasma concentration, steady-state
65 ng/mL (0.5 mg/week); 123 ng/mL (1 mg/week); similar exposure is achieved
with SC administration of semaglutide in the abdomen, thigh, or upper arm

Wegovy: 75 nmol/L; increases proportionally with doses up to 2.4 mg/week

PO

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/ozempic-rybelsus-wegovy-semaglutide-1000174 18/22



6/22/26, 5:20 PM Ozempic, Rybelsus, Wegovy (semaglutide) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Absolute bioavailability: ~0.4-1% (Rybelsus); ~1-2% (Ozempic, Wegovy)

Peak plasma time: ~1 hr

Plasma concentration, steady-state: 6.7 nmol/L (7 mg/day); 14.6 nmol/L (14
mg/day)

Steady-stat reached in 4-5 weeks

Distribution

Vd: 12.5 L (SC); 8 L (PO; Rybelsus, Ozempic); ~12.5 L (PO; Wegovy)

Protein binding: >99% (bound to plasma albumin)

Metabolism

Primary route: Proteolytic cleavage of the peptide backbone and sequential beta-
oxidation of the fatty acid sidechain

Excretion

Half-life: ~1 week

Clearance: 0.05 L/hr (SC); 0.04-0.5 L/hr (PO)

Excretion: Primary excretion routes are urine and feces; ~3% of absorbed dose is
excreted in urine unchanged

Administration

SC Administration (Ozempic)

Administer SC to abdomen, thigh, or upper arm

Administer once weekly, on same day each week, at any time of day, with or without
meals

Day of weekly administration can be changed if necessary as long as time between 2
doses is at least 2 days (>48 hours)

Use a different injection site each week when injecting in same body region

Visually inspect before use; drug should appear clear and colorless

Do not use semaglutide if particulate matter and coloration observed

When used with insulin, administer as separate injections and never mix products; it is
acceptable to inject semaglutide and insulin in same body region, but injections should
not be adjacent to each other

Missed SC dose (Ozempic)

If missed dose is ≤5 days: Administer dose as soon as possible

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/ozempic-rybelsus-wegovy-semaglutide-1000174 19/22



6/22/26, 5:20 PM Ozempic, Rybelsus, Wegovy (semaglutide) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

If missed dose >5 days: Skip missed dose and administer next dose on regularly
scheduled day; patients can then resume their regular once weekly dosing schedule

SC Administration (Wegovy)

Administer SC to abdomen, thigh, or upper arm

The time of day and injection site can be changed without dose adjustment

Administer once weekly, on same day each week, at any time of day, with or without
meals

Visually inspect before use; drug should appear clear and colorless

Do not use if particulate matter and discoloration observed

Missed SC dose (Wegovy)

If 1 dose is missed and next scheduled dose is >2 days away (48 hr), administer
missed dose as soon as possible

If 1 dose is missed and next scheduled dose is <2 days away (48 hr), do not
administer dose; resume dosing on regularly scheduled day of the week

If >2 consecutive doses are missed, resume dosing as scheduled or, if needed,
reinitiate and follow dose escalation schedule, which may reduce occurrence of GI
symptoms associated with reinitiating treatment

Oral Administration (Wegovy)

Take tablet on empty stomach in morning with water (up to 4 ounces); wait at least 30
minutes before eating food, drinking beverages, or taking other oral medications

Do not take with other liquids besides water

Do not take more than 1 tablet daily

Swallow tablet whole; do not split, crush, chew or dissolve in any solution

Oral Administration (Rybelsus or Ozempic tablets)

Take on an empty stomach in morning with water (up to 4 oz); do not take with other
liquids besides water

After administration, wait at least 30 minutes before eating food, drinking beverages, or
taking other oral medications

Swallow tablets whole; do not split, crush, or chew

Missed oral dose (Rybelsus or Ozempic tablets)

If dose missed, skip missed dose and next dose the following day

Storage

SC (Ozempic)

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/ozempic-rybelsus-wegovy-semaglutide-1000174 20/22



6/22/26, 5:20 PM Ozempic, Rybelsus, Wegovy (semaglutide) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Unused SC pens
Refrigerate at 36-46ºF (2-8ºC)

Do not store in freezer or directly adjacent to the refrigerator cooling element

Do not freeze and do not use if frozen

After first use of SC pens
Store at room temperature, 59-86°F (15-30°C) or refrigerate at 36-46ºF (2-
8ºC) for up to 56 days

Do not freeze

Keep pen cap on when not in use

Protect from excessive heat and sunlight

Single-use SC Syringes
Refrigerate at 36-46ºF (2-8ºC)

If needed, the syringe may kept at 46-86°F (8-30°C) for up to 28 days

Do not freeze

Protect from light; keep in original carton until time of administration

Discard after use

SC (Wegovy)

Refrigerate at 2-8ºC (36-46ºF)

If needed, prior to cap removal, the pen or syringe can be kept at 8-30ºC (46-86ºF)
up to 28 days

Do not freeze

Protect from light; keep in original carton until time of administration

Discard after use

Oral (Rybelsus or Wegovy) tablets

Store at 68-77ºF (20-25ºC); excursions permitted to 59-86ºF (15-30ºC)

Store and dispense in original carton to protect tablets from moisture

Formulary

Adding plans allows you to compare formulary status to other drugs in the same class.

Formulary information is available for health plans only in the United States.

Medscape prescription drug monographs are based on FDA-approved labeling information, unless otherwise noted,
combined with additional data derived from primary medical literature.

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/ozempic-rybelsus-wegovy-semaglutide-1000174 21/22



6/22/26, 5:20 PM Ozempic, Rybelsus, Wegovy (semaglutide) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/ozempic-rybelsus-wegovy-semaglutide-1000174 22/22