6/22/26, 7:41 PM Synthroid, Levoxyl (levothyroxine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
This site is intended for healthcare professionals

levothyroxine (Rx)
Brand and Other Names: Synthroid, Levoxyl, Levo T, Tirosint, Tirosint-SOL, Unithroid,
Thyquidity, Levolet, Ermeza, Euthyrox, Thyro-tabs
Classes: Thyroid Products

Dosing & Uses

ADULT
Dosage Forms & Strengths

tablet (Euthyrox, Levolet, Levo-T, Levoxyl, Synthroid, Thyro-tabs, Unithroid, generic)

25mcg, 50mcg, 75mcg, 88mcg, 100mcg, 112mcg

125mcg, 137mcg, 150mcg, 175mcg, 200mcg, 300mcg

capsule (Tirosint, generic)

13mcg, 25mcg, 50mcg, 75mcg, 88mcg

100mcg, 112 mcg, 125mcg, 137 mcg, 150mcg

oral solution

Tirosint-SOL
13mcg/mL, 25mcg/mL, 37.5mcg/mL, 44mcg/mL, 50mcg/mL, 62.5mcg/mL

75mcg/mL, 88mcg/mL, 100mcg/mL, 112mcg/mL, 125mcg/mL, 137mcg/mL

150mcg/mL, 175mcg/mL, 200mcg/mL

Thyquidity
20mcg/mL

Ermeza
30mcg/mL

injection, lyophilized powder for reconstitution

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/synthroid-levoxyl-levothyroxine-342732 1/26



6/22/26, 7:41 PM Synthroid, Levoxyl (levothyroxine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

100mcg/vial

200mcg/vial

500mcg/vial

injection, solution

100mcg/mL

Hypothyroidism

Indicted as replacement therapy in primary (thyroidal), secondary (pituitary), and tertiary
(hypothalamic) congenital or acquired hypothyroidism

Initial: 1.6 mcg/kg/day PO 

Titrate by 12.5-25 mcg increments q4-6weeks until euthyroid

Dosages >200 mcg/day are seldom required

An inadequate response to daily dosages >300 mcg/day is rare and may indicate poor
compliance, malabsorption, drug interactions, or a combination of these factors

Patients requiring lower starting dose

Adults at risk for atrial fibrillation or with underlying cardiac disease

Geriatric patients

<1.6 mcg/kg/day; titrate dosage q6-8weeks PRN until patient is euthyroid

Pregnant patients

Pre-existing primary hypothyroidism with TSH above normal trimester-
specific range

Initial: Pre-pregnancy dose may increase during pregnancy

Dose adjustment/titration: Increase dose by 12.5-25 mcg/day; monitor TSH
q4weeks until stable dose achieved and serum TSH is within normal
trimester-specific range

Postpartum: Reduce dose to pre-pregnancy levels immediately after delivery;
monitor TSH 4-8 weeks postpartum

New onset hypothyroidism
TSH ≥10 mIU/L: 1.6 mcg/kg/day PO initially

TSH <10 mIU/L: 1 mcg/kg/day PO initially

Monitor serum TSH q4weeks and adjust dosage until serum TSH is within
normal trimester-specific range

Myxedema Coma

300-500 mcg IV once, THEN 50-100 mcg qDay until patient is able to tolerate oral
administration; may consider smaller doses in patients with cardiovascular disease

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/synthroid-levoxyl-levothyroxine-342732 2/26



6/22/26, 7:41 PM Synthroid, Levoxyl (levothyroxine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Pituitary Thyrotropin Suppression

Indicated in adult and pediatric patients, including neonates, as an adjunct to surgery
and radioiodine therapy for management of thyrotropin-dependent well-differentiated
thyroid cancer

Dosage based on target level of TSH suppression for the stage and clinical status of
thyroid cancer

Organ Preservation (Orphan)

Preservation of organ function in brain-dead organ donors

Orphan sponsor

Fera Pharmaceuticals, LLC; 134 Birch Hill Road; Locust Valley, NY 11560

Dosing Considerations

The dosage for hypothyroidism or pituitary TSH suppression depends on a variety of
factors including the patient's age, body weight, cardiovascular status, concomitant
medical conditions (including pregnancy), concomitant medications, co-administered
food, and specific nature of the condition being treated

Dosing must be individualized to account for these factors and dosage adjustments
made based on periodic assessment of patient's clinical response and laboratory
parameters

For adult patients with primary hypothyroidism, titrate until patient is clinically euthyroid
and serum TSH returns to normal

For secondary or tertiary hypothyroidism, serum TSH is not a reliable measure of dosage
adequacy and should not be used to monitor therapy

Use serum free-T4 level to titrate dosing until patient is clinically euthyroid and serum
free-T4 level is restored to upper half of normal range

Lower dose of Tirosint capsules may be required compared with standard T4 tablets for
hypothyroidism in patients with impaired gastric acid secretion to reach their target TSH
levels; Tirosint has shown improved absorption compared with conventional T4 tablets

Check for bioequivalence if switching brands/generics, OR every week after switching
from one levothyroxine sodium preparation to another

Monitor serum thyroid levels; patient may be asymptomatic

The peak therapeutic effect of a given dose may not be attained for 4 to 6 weeks

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/synthroid-levoxyl-levothyroxine-342732 3/26



6/22/26, 7:41 PM Synthroid, Levoxyl (levothyroxine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Monitoring TSH and/or thyroxine (T4) levels

Initially evaluate patients q6-8Week

Once normalization of thyroid function and serum TSH concentration achieved,
evaluate q6-12mo

Biotin
Biotin supplementation may interfere with immunoassays for TSH, T4, and T3,
resulting in erroneous thyroid hormone test results

Inquire whether patients are taking biotin or biotin-containing supplements

Stop biotin supplementation at least 2 days before assessing TSH and/or T4
levels

Limitations of use

IV: Relative bioavailability has not been established; use caution when converting
patients from PO to IV

PO
Not indicated for suppression of benign thyroid nodules and nontoxic diffuse
goiter in iodine-sufficient patients, as there are no clinical benefits and
overtreatment with levothyroxine may induce hyperthyroidism

Not indicated for treatment of hypothyroidism during recovery phase of
subacute thyroiditis

PEDIATRIC
Dosage Forms & Strengths

tablet (Euthyrox, levolet, Levo-T, Levoxyl, Synthroid, Thyro-tabs, Unithroid, generic)

25mcg, 50mcg, 75mcg, 88mcg, 100mcg, 112mcg

125mcg, 137mcg, 150mcg, 175mcg, 200mcg, 300mcg

capsule (Tirosint, generic)

13mcg, 25mcg, 50mcg, 75mcg, 88mcg

100mcg, 112 mcg, 125mcg, 137 mcg, 150mcg

oral solution

Tirosint-SOL
13mcg/mL, 25mcg/mL, 37.5mcg/mL, 44mcg/mL, 50mcg/mL, 62.5mcg/mL

75mcg/mL, 88mcg/mL, 100mcg/mL, 112mcg/mL, 125mcg/mL, 137mcg/mL

150mcg/mL, 175mcg/mL, 200mcg/mL

Thyquidity
20mcg/mL

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/synthroid-levoxyl-levothyroxine-342732 4/26



6/22/26, 7:41 PM Synthroid, Levoxyl (levothyroxine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Ermeza
30mcg/mL

injection, lyophilized powder for reconstitution

100mcg/vial

200mcg/vial

Hypothyroidism

Indicted in children, including neonates, as replacement therapy in primary (thyroidal),
secondary (pituitary), and tertiary (hypothalamic) congenital or acquired hypothyroidism

Initial daily dose

Age 0-3 months
10-15 mcg/kg/day PO 

5-7.5 mcg/kg/day IV/IM

Use lower starting dose (25 mcg/day) if patient at risk of cardiac failure; if
initial serum T4 lower than 5 mcg/dL begin treatment at higher dose (50
mcg/day)

At risk for cardiac failure: Start at lower starting dosage and increase every 4-
6 weeks as needed based on clinical and laboratory response

Age 3-6 months
8-10 mcg/kg/day PO, OR 

25-50 mcg/day PO

4-7.5 mcg/kg/day IV/IM

Age 6-12 months
6-8 mcg/kg/day PO, OR 

50-75 mcg/day PO

3-6 mcg/kg/day IV/IM

Age 1-5 years
5-6 mcg/kg/day PO, OR 

75-100 mcg/day PO

2.5-4.5 mcg/kg/day IV/IM

Age 6-12 years
4-5 mcg/kg/day PO, OR 

100-125 mcg/day PO

2-3.75 mcg/kg/day IV/IM

>12 years, growth/puberty incomplete
2-3 mcg/kg/day PO, OR 

150 mcg/day PO

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/synthroid-levoxyl-levothyroxine-342732 5/26



6/22/26, 7:41 PM Synthroid, Levoxyl (levothyroxine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

1-2.25 mcg/kg/day IV/IM

>12 years, growth/puberty complete
Initial: 1.6 mcg/kg/day PO

Titrate by 12.5-25 mcg increments q4-6weeks until euthyroid

Dosages >200 mcg/day are seldom required

An inadequate response to daily dosages >300 mcg/day is rare and may
indicate poor compliance, malabsorption, drug interactions, or a combination of
these factors

Pituitary Thyrotropin Suppression

Indicated in adult and pediatric patients, including neonates, as an adjunct to surgery
and radioiodine therapy for management of thyrotropin-dependent well-differentiated
thyroid cancer

Dosage based on target level of TSH suppression for the stage and clinical status of
thyroid cancer

Dosing Considerations

The dosage for hypothyroidism or pituitary TSH suppression depends on a variety of
factors including the patient's age, body weight, cardiovascular status, concomitant
medical conditions (including pregnancy), concomitant medications, co-administered
food and specific nature of the condition being treated

Dosing must be individualized to account for these factors and dosage adjustments
made based on periodic assessment of patient's clinical response and laboratory
parameters

Lower dose of Tirosint capsules may be required compared with standard T4 tablets for
hypothyroidism in patients with impaired gastric acid secretion to reach their target TSH
levels; Tirosint has shown improved absorption compared with conventional T4 tablets

Check for bioequivalence if switching brands/generics, OR every week after switching
from one levothyroxine sodium preparation to another

Monitor serum thyroid levels; patient may be asymptomatic

The peak therapeutic effect of a given dose may not be attained for 4 to 6 weeks

Monitoring TSH and/or thyroxine (T4) levels

Initially evaluate patients q6-8Week

Once normalization of thyroid function and serum TSH concentration achieved,
evaluate q6-12mo

Biotin

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/synthroid-levoxyl-levothyroxine-342732 6/26



6/22/26, 7:41 PM Synthroid, Levoxyl (levothyroxine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Biotin supplementation may interfere with immunoassays for TSH, T4, and T3,
resulting in erroneous thyroid hormone test results

Inquire whether patients are taking biotin or biotin-containing supplements

Stop biotin supplementation at least 2 days before assessing TSH and/or T4
levels

Pediatric patients at risk for hyperactivity

Minimize risk of hyperactivity by starting at 25% of recommended full replacement
dosage, and increase by that amount each week until full dose achieved

GERIATRIC
Because of increased prevalence of cardiovascular disease among the elderly, initiate
therapy at less than full replacement dose; atrial arrhythmias can occur in elderly
patients; atrial fibrillation is the most common of arrhythmias observed with
levothyroxine overtreatment in the elderly

Interactions

Interaction Checker

Enter a drug name to check for any interactions. Type a drug, OTC, or herbal  and
levothyroxine
No Interactions Found
Interactions Found
Contraindicated

Serious

Significant - Monitor Closely

Minor

All Interactions Sort By: Severity
Contraindicated (1)

sodium iodide I-131
levothyroxine will decrease the level or effect of sodium iodide I-131 by Other (see
comment). Contraindicated. Use of thyroid products or iodine before and during
treatment with sodium iodide I-131 decreases uptake of sodium iodide I-131 by the
thyroid gland

Serious (12)

antithrombin alfa

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/synthroid-levoxyl-levothyroxine-342732 7/26



6/22/26, 7:41 PM Synthroid, Levoxyl (levothyroxine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

levothyroxine increases effects of antithrombin alfa by pharmacodynamic
synergism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

antithrombin III
levothyroxine increases effects of antithrombin III by pharmacodynamic synergism.
Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

argatroban
levothyroxine increases effects of argatroban by pharmacodynamic synergism.
Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

bemiparin
levothyroxine increases effects of bemiparin by pharmacodynamic synergism. Avoid
or Use Alternate Drug.

bivalirudin
levothyroxine increases effects of bivalirudin by pharmacodynamic synergism.
Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

bremelanotide
bremelanotide will decrease the level or effect of levothyroxine by Other (see
comment). Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Bremelanotide may slow gastric emptying
and potentially reduces the rate and extent of absorption of concomitantly
administered oral medications. Avoid use when taking any oral drug that is
dependent on threshold concentrations for efficacy. Interactions listed are
representative examples and do not include all possible clinical examples.

fondaparinux
levothyroxine increases effects of fondaparinux by pharmacodynamic synergism.
Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

heparin
levothyroxine increases effects of heparin by pharmacodynamic synergism. Avoid or
Use Alternate Drug.

lycopus
lycopus decreases effects of levothyroxine by pharmacodynamic antagonism.
Contraindicated. Lycopus blocks peripheral conversion of T4 to T3.

phenindione
levothyroxine increases effects of phenindione by pharmacodynamic synergism.
Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

protamine
levothyroxine increases effects of protamine by pharmacodynamic synergism. Avoid
or Use Alternate Drug.

trofinetide
trofinetide will increase the level or effect of levothyroxine by Other (see comment).
Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Trofinetide (an OATP131 and OATP13B inhibitor)

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/synthroid-levoxyl-levothyroxine-342732 8/26



6/22/26, 7:41 PM Synthroid, Levoxyl (levothyroxine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

may increase plasma levels of OATP131 or OATP13B substrates. Avoid
coadministration with sensitive substrates.

Monitor Closely (68)

albuterol
levothyroxine, albuterol. Either increases toxicity of the other by sympathetic
(adrenergic) effects, including increased blood pressure and heart rate. Use
Caution/Monitor.

albuterol inhaled
levothyroxine, albuterol inhaled. Either increases toxicity of the other by
sympathetic (adrenergic) effects, including increased blood pressure and heart rate.
Use Caution/Monitor.

amitriptyline
levothyroxine increases effects of amitriptyline by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: Increased catecholamine receptor sensitivity; may
increase CNS and cardiovascular effects, including arrhythmias.

amoxapine
levothyroxine increases effects of amoxapine by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: Increased catecholamine receptor sensitivity; may
increase CNS and cardiovascular effects, including arrhythmias.

apalutamide
apalutamide will decrease the level or effect of levothyroxine by increasing
elimination. Use Caution/Monitor. Apalutamide induces UGT and may decrease
systemic exposure of drugs that are UGT substrates.

arformoterol
levothyroxine, arformoterol. Either increases toxicity of the other by sympathetic
(adrenergic) effects, including increased blood pressure and heart rate. Use
Caution/Monitor.

caffeine
caffeine decreases levels of levothyroxine by inhibition of GI absorption. Applies
only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor. Caffeine (a
sympathomimetic) concomitantly used with oral levothyroxine may increase the
effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone. Thyroid hormones may increase
the risk of coronary insufficiency when sympathomimetic agents are administered
to patients with coronary artery disease.

calcium acetate
calcium acetate decreases levels of levothyroxine by inhibition of GI absorption.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor. Separate
administration by 4 hours.

calcium carbonate
calcium carbonate decreases levels of levothyroxine by inhibition of GI absorption.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor. Separate

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/synthroid-levoxyl-levothyroxine-342732 9/26



6/22/26, 7:41 PM Synthroid, Levoxyl (levothyroxine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

administration by 4 hours.

calcium chloride
calcium chloride decreases levels of levothyroxine by inhibition of GI absorption.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor. Separate
administration by 4 hours.

calcium citrate
calcium citrate decreases levels of levothyroxine by inhibition of GI absorption.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor. Separate
administration by 4 hours.

calcium gluconate
calcium gluconate decreases levels of levothyroxine by inhibition of GI absorption.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor. Separate
administration by 4 hours.

carbonyl iron
carbonyl iron decreases levels of levothyroxine by inhibition of GI absorption.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor. Separate
administration by 4 hours.

cholestyramine
cholestyramine decreases levels of levothyroxine by inhibition of GI absorption.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor. Bile acid
sequestrants are known to decrease levothyroxine absorption. Separate
adminisration by 4 hr or monitor thyrotropin (TSH) levels.

clomipramine
levothyroxine increases effects of clomipramine by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: Increased catecholamine receptor sensitivity; may
increase CNS and cardiovascular effects, including arrhythmias.

colesevelam
colesevelam decreases levels of levothyroxine by drug binding in GI tract. Use
Caution/Monitor. Concomitant administration decreases levothyroxine absorption;
however, absorption is not reduced when levothyroxine is administered 4 hr before
colesevelam.

crofelemer
crofelemer increases levels of levothyroxine by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: Crofelemer has the potential to inhibit transporters
MRP2 and OATP1A2 at concentrations expected in the gut; unlikely to inhibit
systemically because minimally absorbed.

desipramine
levothyroxine increases effects of desipramine by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: Increased catecholamine receptor sensitivity; may
increase CNS and cardiovascular effects, including arrhythmias.

diazoxide choline
diazoxide choline increases levels of levothyroxine by plasma protein binding
competition. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Monitor drugs that are highly protein

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/synthroid-levoxyl-levothyroxine-342732 10/26



6/22/26, 7:41 PM Synthroid, Levoxyl (levothyroxine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

bound with narrow therapeutic indexes for potential increased systemic exposure.
Dosage adjustment may be required .

didanosine
didanosine will decrease the level or effect of levothyroxine by inhibition of GI
absorption. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor. Applies
to didanosine chewable tablets and powder for oral solution; administer 2 hr before
or several hours after didanosine oral solution or chewable tablet administration

digoxin
levothyroxine decreases effects of digoxin by unknown mechanism. Use
Caution/Monitor.

doxepin
levothyroxine increases effects of doxepin by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: Increased catecholamine receptor sensitivity; may
increase CNS and cardiovascular effects, including arrhythmias.

doxepin cream
levothyroxine increases effects of doxepin cream by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: Increased catecholamine receptor sensitivity; may
increase CNS and cardiovascular effects, including arrhythmias.

dulaglutide
dulaglutide, levothyroxine. Other (see comment). Use Caution/Monitor. Comment:
Dulaglutide slows gastric emptying and may impact absorption of concomitantly
administered oral medications; be particularly cautious when coadministered with
drugs that have a narrow therapeutic index.

eluxadoline
eluxadoline increases levels of levothyroxine by decreasing metabolism. Use
Caution/Monitor. Eluxadoline may increase the systemic exposure of coadministered
OATP1B1 substrates.

epinephrine
levothyroxine will increase the level or effect of epinephrine by unspecified
interaction mechanism. Use Caution/Monitor.

ferric maltol
ferric maltol decreases levels of levothyroxine by inhibition of GI absorption.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor. Separate
administration by 4 hours.

ferric maltol, levothyroxine. Either increases effects of the other by unspecified
interaction mechanism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Coadministration of ferric
maltol with certain oral medications may decrease the bioavailability of either ferric
maltol and some oral drugs. For oral drugs where reductions in bioavailability may
cause clinically significant effects on its safety or efficacy, separate administration of
ferric maltol from these drugs. Duration of separation may depend on the
absorption of the medication concomitantly administered (eg, time to peak
concentration, whether the drug is an immediate or extended release product).

ferrous fumarate

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/synthroid-levoxyl-levothyroxine-342732 11/26



6/22/26, 7:41 PM Synthroid, Levoxyl (levothyroxine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

ferrous fumarate decreases levels of levothyroxine by inhibition of GI absorption.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor. Separate
administration by 4 hours.

ferrous gluconate
ferrous gluconate decreases levels of levothyroxine by inhibition of GI absorption.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor. Separate
administration by 4 hours.

ferrous sulfate
ferrous sulfate decreases levels of levothyroxine by inhibition of GI absorption.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor. Separate
administration by 4 hours.

food
food decreases levels of levothyroxine by inhibition of GI absorption. Applies only
to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor. Soybean flour (infant formula),
cottonseed meal, walnuts, and dietary fiber may bind and decrease the absorption
of oral levothyroxine from the GI tract. Grapefruit juice may also delay the
absorption of levothyroxine and reduce its bioavailability.

formoterol
levothyroxine, formoterol. Either increases toxicity of the other by sympathetic
(adrenergic) effects, including increased blood pressure and heart rate. Use
Caution/Monitor.

imipramine
levothyroxine increases effects of imipramine by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: Increased catecholamine receptor sensitivity; may
increase CNS and cardiovascular effects, including arrhythmias.

insulin degludec
levothyroxine decreases effects of insulin degludec by pharmacodynamic
antagonism. Use Caution/Monitor. Thyroid hormones regulate carbohydrate
metabolism, gluconeogenesis, and glycogen stores mobilization; dose of
antidiabetic agents may need adjustment and increased frequency of glucose
monitoring may be required.

insulin degludec/insulin aspart
levothyroxine decreases effects of insulin degludec/insulin aspart by
pharmacodynamic antagonism. Use Caution/Monitor. Thyroid hormones regulate
carbohydrate metabolism, gluconeogenesis, and glycogen stores mobilization; dose
of antidiabetic agents may need adjustment and increased frequency of glucose
monitoring may be required.

insulin icodec
levothyroxine decreases effects of insulin icodec by pharmacodynamic antagonism.
Use Caution/Monitor. Concomitant use of insulin and thyroid hormone may require
insulin dosage adjustment and increased glucose monitoring.

insulin inhaled
levothyroxine decreases effects of insulin inhaled by pharmacodynamic antagonism.
Use Caution/Monitor. Thyroid hormones regulate carbohydrate metabolism,

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/synthroid-levoxyl-levothyroxine-342732 12/26



6/22/26, 7:41 PM Synthroid, Levoxyl (levothyroxine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

gluconeogenesis, and glycogen stores mobilization; dose of antidiabetic agents may
need adjustment and increased frequency of glucose monitoring may be required.

iron dextran complex
iron dextran complex decreases levels of levothyroxine by inhibition of GI
absorption. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor. Separate
administration by 4 hours.

iron sucrose
iron sucrose decreases levels of levothyroxine by inhibition of GI absorption.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor. Separate
administration by 4 hours.

ketamine
levothyroxine increases toxicity of ketamine by unspecified interaction mechanism.
Use Caution/Monitor. Coadministration may cause marked hypertension and
tachycardia.

lanthanum carbonate
lanthanum carbonate decreases levels of levothyroxine by cation binding in GI tract.
Use Caution/Monitor. Administer oral thyroid products at least 2 hr before or after
lanthanum. Interaction applies only to oral thyroid products only. .

letermovir
letermovir increases levels of levothyroxine by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: Letermovir, an OATP1B1/3 inhibitor may increase
plasma concentrations of coadministered OATP1B1/3 substrates.

levalbuterol
levothyroxine, levalbuterol. Either increases toxicity of the other by sympathetic
(adrenergic) effects, including increased blood pressure and heart rate. Use
Caution/Monitor.

levonorgestrel oral/ethinylestradiol/ferrous bisglycinate
levonorgestrel oral/ethinylestradiol/ferrous bisglycinate will decrease the level or
effect of levothyroxine by unknown mechanism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.
The estrogen component of combined hormonal contraceptives (CHCs) may raise
the serum concentrations of thyroxine-binding globulin. Women on thyroid
hormone replacement therapy may need increased doses of thyroid hormone with
use of CHCs.

magnesium supplement
magnesium supplement will decrease the level or effect of levothyroxine by Other
(see comment). Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Drug may adsorb to magnesium;
may decrease absorption by the intestinal tract; applies to oral forms; may separate
administration of drugs by 4 hr

metformin
levothyroxine decreases effects of metformin by pharmacodynamic antagonism.
Use Caution/Monitor. Concomitant use may require increased glucose monitoring.

mitapivat

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/synthroid-levoxyl-levothyroxine-342732 13/26



6/22/26, 7:41 PM Synthroid, Levoxyl (levothyroxine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

mitapivat decreases levels of levothyroxine by increasing metabolism. Use
Caution/Monitor. Mitapivat induces UGT1A1 in vitro and may decrease systemic
concentrations of UGT1A1 substrates.

nateglinide
levothyroxine decreases effects of nateglinide by pharmacodynamic antagonism.
Use Caution/Monitor. Coadministration may reduce nateglinide's hypoglycemic
action.

nortriptyline
levothyroxine increases effects of nortriptyline by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: Increased catecholamine receptor sensitivity; may
increase CNS and cardiovascular effects, including arrhythmias.

orforglipron
orforglipron decreases effects of levothyroxine by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: GLP-1 agonists delay gastric emptying and may impact
the absorption of concomitantly administered oral medications. Monitor patients on
oral medications with a narrow therapeutic index or those dependent on threshold
concentrations for efficacy.

orlistat
orlistat decreases levels of levothyroxine by inhibition of GI absorption. Applies only
to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor. Risk of hypothyroidism. Separate
administration by 4 hours.

patiromer
patiromer will decrease the level or effect of levothyroxine by drug binding in GI
tract. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Separate administration by at least 3 hr from
patiromer

polysaccharide iron
polysaccharide iron decreases levels of levothyroxine by inhibition of GI absorption.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor. Separate
administration by 4 hours.

pretomanid
pretomanid will increase the level or effect of levothyroxine by Other (see
comment). Use Caution/Monitor. Increase monitoring for drug-related adverse
effects if pretomanid is coadministered with sensitive OATP1B3 substrates.

protriptyline
levothyroxine increases effects of protriptyline by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: Increased catecholamine receptor sensitivity; may
increase CNS and cardiovascular effects, including arrhythmias.

raloxifene
raloxifene decreases levels of levothyroxine by inhibition of GI absorption. Applies
only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor. Risk of hypothyroidism.
Separate administration by 4 hours.

ropeginterferon alfa 2b

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/synthroid-levoxyl-levothyroxine-342732 14/26



6/22/26, 7:41 PM Synthroid, Levoxyl (levothyroxine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

ropeginterferon alfa 2b will increase the level or effect of levothyroxine by Other
(see comment). Use Caution/Monitor. Certain proinflammatory cytokines, including
interferons, can suppress CYP450 enzymes resulting in increased exposures of
some CYP substrates. Therefore, monitor patients who are receiving concomitant
drugs that are CYP450 substrates with a narrow therapeutic index from toxicities to
such drugs.

rose hips
rose hips decreases levels of levothyroxine by inhibition of GI absorption. Applies
only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.

sodium polystyrene sulfonate
sodium polystyrene sulfonate will decrease the level or effect of levothyroxine by
inhibition of GI absorption. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Modify
Therapy/Monitor Closely. Separate administration by at least 3 hours

sodium sulfate/?magnesium sulfate/potassium chloride
sodium sulfate/?magnesium sulfate/potassium chloride decreases levels of
levothyroxine by inhibition of GI absorption. Applies only to oral form of both
agents. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Administer levothyroxine at least 4 hr after
each dose to avoid chelation with magnesium.

sodium sulfate/potassium sulfate/magnesium sulfate
sodium sulfate/potassium sulfate/magnesium sulfate decreases levels of
levothyroxine by inhibition of GI absorption. Applies only to oral form of both
agents. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Administer levothyroxine at least 4 hr after
each dose to avoid chelation with magnesium. .

sucroferric oxyhydroxide
sucroferric oxyhydroxide decreases levels of levothyroxine by inhibition of GI
absorption. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely. Administer oral/enteral levothyroxine at least 4 hours before administration
of sucroferric oxyhydroxide. No interaction anticipated with parenteral
levothyroxine.

teduglutide
teduglutide increases levels of levothyroxine by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: Teduglutide may increase absorption of concomitant
PO medications; caution with with drugs requiring titration or those with a narrow
therapeutic index; dose adjustment may be necessary.

tirzepatide
tirzepatide decreases levels of levothyroxine by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: GLP1 agonists delay gastrc emptying and may impact
the absorption of concomitantly administered oral medications. Monitor patients on
oral medications dependent on threshold concentrations for efficacy and those with
a narrow therapeutic index. .

trimagnesium citrate anhydrous
trimagnesium citrate anhydrous decreases levels of levothyroxine by inhibition of GI
absorption. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor. Separate
administration by 4 hours.

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/synthroid-levoxyl-levothyroxine-342732 15/26



6/22/26, 7:41 PM Synthroid, Levoxyl (levothyroxine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

trimipramine
levothyroxine increases effects of trimipramine by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: Increased catecholamine receptor sensitivity; may
increase CNS and cardiovascular effects, including arrhythmias.

ustekinumab
ustekinumab, levothyroxine. Other (see comment). Use Caution/Monitor. Comment:
Formation of CYP450 enzymes can be altered by increased levels of certain
cytokines during chronic inflammation; thus, normalizing the formation of CYP450
enzymes. Upon initiation or discontinuation of ustekinumab in patients who are
receiving concomitant CYP450 substrates, particularly those with a narrow
therapeutic index, consider monitoring for therapeutic effect.

warfarin
levothyroxine increases effects of warfarin by unspecified interaction mechanism.
Use Caution/Monitor.

Minor (26)

alendronate
levothyroxine decreases levels of alendronate by unspecified interaction
mechanism. Minor/Significance Unknown. Bioavailability of alendronate decreases
slightly.

butalbital
butalbital decreases levels of levothyroxine by increasing metabolism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

carbamazepine
carbamazepine decreases levels of levothyroxine by increasing metabolism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

colestipol
colestipol decreases levels of levothyroxine by inhibition of GI absorption. Applies
only to oral form of both agents. Minor/Significance Unknown. Bile acid
sequestrants are known to decrease levothyroxine absorption. Separate
adminisration by 4 hr or monitor thyrotropin (TSH) levels.

dexlansoprazole
dexlansoprazole decreases levels of levothyroxine by increasing gastric pH. Applies
only to oral form of both agents. Minor/Significance Unknown. Conflicting evidence
regarding this interaction exists.

eptifibatide
levothyroxine decreases levels of eptifibatide by increasing renal clearance.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

eslicarbazepine acetate
eslicarbazepine acetate decreases levels of levothyroxine by increasing metabolism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

esomeprazole

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/synthroid-levoxyl-levothyroxine-342732 16/26



6/22/26, 7:41 PM Synthroid, Levoxyl (levothyroxine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

esomeprazole decreases levels of levothyroxine by increasing gastric pH. Applies
only to oral form of both agents. Minor/Significance Unknown. Conflicting evidence
regarding this interaction exists.

fosphenytoin
fosphenytoin decreases levels of levothyroxine by increasing metabolism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

fosphenytoin decreases levels of levothyroxine by plasma protein binding
competition. Minor/Significance Unknown.

furosemide
furosemide increases toxicity of levothyroxine by Other (see comment).
Minor/Significance Unknown. Comment: High doses (greater than 80 mg) of
furosemide may inhibit binding of thyroid hormones to carrier proteins and result in
transient increase in free thyroid hormones, followed by overall decrease in total
thyroid hormone levels.

glandular products
glandular products increases effects of levothyroxine by pharmacodynamic
synergism. Minor/Significance Unknown. Additive effects with thyroid glandular
extract.

guggul
guggul decreases effects of levothyroxine by pharmacodynamic antagonism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

lansoprazole
lansoprazole decreases levels of levothyroxine by increasing gastric pH. Applies
only to oral form of both agents. Minor/Significance Unknown. Conflicting evidence
regarding this interaction exists.

omeprazole
omeprazole decreases levels of levothyroxine by increasing gastric pH. Applies only
to oral form of both agents. Minor/Significance Unknown. Conflicting evidence
regarding this interaction exists.

oxcarbazepine
oxcarbazepine decreases levels of levothyroxine by increasing metabolism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

pantoprazole
pantoprazole decreases levels of levothyroxine by increasing gastric pH. Applies
only to oral form of both agents. Minor/Significance Unknown. Conflicting evidence
regarding this interaction exists.

pentobarbital
pentobarbital decreases levels of levothyroxine by increasing metabolism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

phenobarbital
phenobarbital decreases levels of levothyroxine by increasing metabolism.

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/synthroid-levoxyl-levothyroxine-342732 17/26



6/22/26, 7:41 PM Synthroid, Levoxyl (levothyroxine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Minor/Significance Unknown.

phenytoin
phenytoin decreases levels of levothyroxine by increasing metabolism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

phenytoin decreases levels of levothyroxine by plasma protein binding competition.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

piracetam
piracetam, levothyroxine. Mechanism: unknown. Minor/Significance Unknown.
Combination of piracetam and T3+T4 produced confusion, sleep disorder in single
case.

primidone
primidone decreases levels of levothyroxine by increasing metabolism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

rabeprazole
rabeprazole decreases levels of levothyroxine by increasing gastric pH. Applies only
to oral form of both agents. Minor/Significance Unknown. Conflicting evidence
regarding this interaction exists.

rifampin
rifampin decreases levels of levothyroxine by increasing metabolism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

shepherd's purse
shepherd's purse decreases effects of levothyroxine by unspecified interaction
mechanism. Minor/Significance Unknown. Theoretical interaction.

theophylline
levothyroxine decreases levels of theophylline by increasing elimination.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

tirofiban
levothyroxine decreases levels of tirofiban by increasing renal clearance.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

Adverse Effects

Frequency Not Defined

Angina pectoris

Arthralgia

Congestive heart failure

Flushing

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/synthroid-levoxyl-levothyroxine-342732 18/26



6/22/26, 7:41 PM Synthroid, Levoxyl (levothyroxine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Increased pulse

Myocardial infarction

Palpitations

Arrhythmias

Cramps

Diarrhea

Nervousness

Anxiety

Choking sensation

Emotional lability

Headache

Heat intolerance

Insomnia

Myasthenia

Pseudotumor cerebri

Alopecia

Weight loss

Infertility

Dyspnea

Fever

Tachycardia

Tremor

Decreased bone mineral density

Postmarketing Reports

Musculoskeletal: Muscle weakness, muscle spasm

Dermatologic: Hair loss, rash

Slipped capital femoral epiphysis (children)

Warnings

Black Box Warnings

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/synthroid-levoxyl-levothyroxine-342732 19/26



6/22/26, 7:41 PM Synthroid, Levoxyl (levothyroxine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Thyroid hormones, either alone or with other therapeutic agents, should not be used for
the treatment of obesity or for weight loss

In euthyroid patients, doses within the range of daily hormonal requirements are
ineffective for weight reduction; larger doses may produce serious or even life-
threatening manifestations of toxicity, particularly when given in association with
sympathomimetic amines such as those used for their anorectic effects

Contraindications

Hypersensitivity to thyroid hormone or other ingredients

Uncorrected adrenal insufficiency

Cautions

Proper dose titration and careful monitoring is critical to prevent persistence of
hypothyroidism or development of hyperthyroidism

Generally, do not use levothyroxine sodium preparations interchangeably, owing to
narrow therapeutic index; check for bioequivalence if switching brands/generics; if
formulations are changed, monitor TSH and adjust dose if needed

Synthroid and Unithroid tabs contain lactose

Pediatric use

In pediatric patients, rapid restoration of normal serum T4 concentrations is
essential for preventing adverse effects of congenital hypothyroidism on cognitive
development as well as on overall physical growth and maturation; therefore,
initiate therapy immediately upon diagnosis; levothyroxine is generally continued
for life in these patients

Closely monitor infants during first 2 weeks of therapy for cardiac overload and
arrhythmias

Cardiovascular

Over-treatment with levothyroxine may cause increase in heart rate, cardiac wall
thickness, and cardiac contractility; may precipitate angina or arrhythmias,
particularly in patients with cardiovascular disease and in elderly patients

Initiate with lower doses in elderly patients than the recommended dose for
younger individuals or patients without cardiac disease

Monitor patients receiving concomitant levothyroxine and sympathomimetic agents
for signs and symptoms of coronary insufficiency

Myxedema coma

Myxedema coma is a life-threatening emergency characterized by poor circulation
and hypometabolism, and may result in unpredictable GI absorption of
levothyroxine

Use of oral thyroid hormone drug products is not recommended to treat myxedema
coma

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/synthroid-levoxyl-levothyroxine-342732 20/26



6/22/26, 7:41 PM Synthroid, Levoxyl (levothyroxine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Treat myxedema coma with IV thyroid products

Acute adrenal crisis in patients with concomitant adrenal insufficiency

Thyroid hormone increases metabolic clearance of glucocorticoids

Initiation of thyroid hormone therapy before initiating glucocorticoid therapy may
precipitate an acute adrenal crisis in patients with adrenal insufficiency

Treat patients with adrenal insufficiency with replacement glucocorticoids before
initiating

Prevention of hyperthyroidism or incomplete treatment of hypothyroidism

Levothyroxine has a narrow therapeutic index

Over- or undertreatment may have negative effects on growth and development,
cardiovascular function, bone metabolism, reproductive function, cognitive function,
emotional state, gastrointestinal function, and on glucose and lipid metabolism in
adult or pediatric patients

In pediatric patients with congenital and acquired hypothyroidism, undertreatment
may adversely affect cognitive development and linear growth, and overtreatment
is associated with craniosynostosis and acceleration of bone age

Titrate dose carefully and monitor response to titration to avoid these effects;
consider potential for food or drug interactions and adjust administration or dosage
as needed

Worsening diabetic control

Addition of levothyroxine therapy in patients with diabetes mellitus may worsen
glycemic control and result in increased antidiabetic agent or insulin requirements

Carefully monitor glycemic control after starting, changing, or discontinuing
levothyroxine

Decreased bone mineral density with over-replacement

Increased bone resorption and decreased bone mineral density may occur as a
result of over-replacement, particularly in post-menopausal women

Increased bone resorption may be associated with increased serum levels and
urinary excretion of calcium and phosphorous, elevations in bone alkaline
phosphatase, and suppressed serum parathyroid hormone levels

Administer minimum dose of levothyroxine that achieves desired clinical and
biochemical response to mitigate against this risk

Drug-food interactions

Evaluate need for dose adjustments when regularly administering within 1 hr of
certain foods that affect levothyroxine absorption

Decreases GI absorption: Soybean flour (infant formula), cottonseed meal, walnuts,
and dietary fiber

Delayed GI absorption, reduced biovailability: Grapefruit juice

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/synthroid-levoxyl-levothyroxine-342732 21/26



6/22/26, 7:41 PM Synthroid, Levoxyl (levothyroxine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Drug interaction overview

Drugs that may decrease T4 absorption
Concurrent use may reduce levothyroxine efficacy by binding and delaying or
preventing absorption, potentially resulting in hypothyroidism

Calcium carbonate, ferrous sulfate, bile acid sequestrants, ion exchange resins:
Administer at least 4 hr apart

Orlistat: Monitor for changes in thyroid function

PPIs, sucralfate, antacids: Hypochlorhydria and altered gastric pH may reduce
levothyroxine absorption; monitor

Drugs that may alter T4 and T3 transport
Typically patients remain euthyroid

Clofibrate, estrogen, heroin, methadone, 5-fluorouracil, mitotane, tamoxifen:
May increase thyroxine binding globulin (TBG) concentration

Androgens, anabolic steroids, asparaginase, glucocorticoids, slow-release
nicotinic acid: may decrease TBG concentration

Salicylates: Inhibit binding of T4 and T3 to TBG and transthyretin; initial
increase in serum FT4 followed by return of FT4 to normal levels with
sustained therapeutic serum salicylate concentrations, although total T4 levels
may decrease by up to 30%

Carbamazepine, furosemide, heparin, hydantoins, NSADs , fenamates: May
cause protein binding site displacement of levothyroxine

Drugs that may alter hepatic metabolism
May increase levothyroxine dose requirements

Phenobarbital, rifampin: Stimulate hepatic microsomal drug-metabolizing
enzyme activity and may cause increased hepatic degradation of levothyroxine

Drugs that may decreased conversion of T4 to T3
Beta blockers: Large doses of propranolol (>160 mg/day), T3 and T4 levels
change slightly, TSH levels remain normal, and patients are clinically
euthyroid; beta-adrenergic antagonists may be impaired when hypothyroid
patient is converted to the euthyroid state

Glucocorticoids: Short-term administration of large doses of glucocorticoids
may decrease serum T3 concentrations by 30% with minimal change in serum
T4 levels; however, long-term glucocorticoid therapy may result in slightly
decreased T3 and T4 levels due to decreased TBG production

Amiodarone: Inhibits peripheral conversion of T4 to T3 and may cause isolated
biochemical changes (increase in serum free-T4, and decreased or normal
free-T3) in clinically euthyroid patients

Antidiabetics
Monitor glycemic control when levothyroxine started, changed, or discontinued

Levothyroxine may worsen glycemic control and result in increased
antidiabetic agent or insulin requirements

Oral anticoagulants

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/synthroid-levoxyl-levothyroxine-342732 22/26



6/22/26, 7:41 PM Synthroid, Levoxyl (levothyroxine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Decreased anticoagulant dose may be required

Levothyroxine increases response to oral anticoagulant

Digoxin
Increased digoxin dose may be required

Levothyroxine may reduce therapeutic effects of digoxin; serum digoxin levels
may be decreased when a hypothyroid patient becomes euthyroid

Antidepressants
Concurrent use of tricyclic or tetracyclic antidepressants and levothyroxine
may increase therapeutic and toxic effects of both drugs, possibly due to
increased receptor sensitivity to catecholamines

Sertraline administration in patients stabilized on levothyroxine may result in
increased levothyroxine requirements

Ketamine
Closely monitor blood pressure

Coadministration may produce marked hypertension and tachycardia

Sympathomimetics
Increased effects of sympathomimetics or thyroid hormone

Thyroid hormones may increase risk of coronary insufficiency when
sympathomimetic agents are administered to patients with coronary artery
disease

Tyrosine kinase inhibitors
Closely monitor TSH levels

Coadministration may cause hypothyroidism

Drugs that interfere with thyroid hormone immunoassays
Biotin supplementation is known to interfere with thyroid hormone
immunoassays that are based on a biotin and streptavidin interaction, which
may result in erroneous thyroid hormone test results; stop biotin and biotin-
containing supplements for at least 2 days prior to thyroid testing

Pregnancy & Lactation

Pregnancy

Experience with levothyroxine use in pregnant women, including data from post-
marketing studies, in pregnant women treated with oral levothyroxine to maintain
euthyroid state, have not reported increased rates of major birth defects or miscarriages;
there are risks to mother and fetus associated with untreated hypothyroidism in
pregnancy; since TSH levels may increase during pregnancy, TSH should be monitored

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/synthroid-levoxyl-levothyroxine-342732 23/26



6/22/26, 7:41 PM Synthroid, Levoxyl (levothyroxine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

and levothyroxine dosage adjusted during pregnancy; untreated maternal
hypothyroidism may have adverse effect on fetal neurocognitive development

Maternal hypothyroidism during pregnancy is associated with a higher rate of
complications, including spontaneous abortion, gestational hypertension, pre-eclampsia,
stillbirth, and premature delivery; untreated maternal hypothyroidism may have adverse
effect on fetal neurocognitive development

Pregnancy may increase thyroid hormone requirements. serum TSH level should be
monitored and the dosage adjusted during pregnancy; since postpartum TSH levels are
similar to preconception values, the dosage should return to the pre-pregnancy dose
immediately after delivery

Animal data

Animal reproductive studies have not been conducted with levothyroxine sodium;
therapy should not be discontinued during pregnancy and hypothyroidism
diagnosed during pregnancy should be promptly treated

Lactation

Limited published studies report that levothyroxine is present in human milk; however,
there is insufficient information to determine effects of levothyroxine on breastfed infant
and no adverse effects on breastfed infant reported and there is no information on
effects of levothyroxine on milk production; adequate levothyroxine treatment during
lactation may normalize milk production in hypothyroid lactating mothers with low milk
supply; developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along
with mother’s clinical need for levothyroxine and any potential adverse effects on
breastfed infant from levothyroxine or from underlying maternal condition

Pregnancy Categories

A: Generally acceptable. Controlled studies in pregnant women show no evidence of
fetal risk.

B: May be acceptable. Either animal studies show no risk but human studies not available
or animal studies showed minor risks and human studies done and showed no risk.

C: Use with caution if benefits outweigh risks. Animal studies show risk and human
studies not available or neither animal nor human studies done.

D: Use in LIFE-THREATENING emergencies when no safer drug available. Positive
evidence of human fetal risk.

X: Do not use in pregnancy. Risks involved outweigh potential benefits. Safer alternatives
exist.

NA: Information not available.

Pharmacology

Mechanism of Action

Synthetic T4; thyroid hormone increases basal metabolic rate, increases utilization and
mobilization of glycogen stores, promotes gluconeogenesis; involved in growth

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/synthroid-levoxyl-levothyroxine-342732 24/26



6/22/26, 7:41 PM Synthroid, Levoxyl (levothyroxine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

development and stimulates protein synthesis

Absorption

40-80% from GI tract (PO)

Bioavailability: 64% (nonfasting); 79-81% (fasting)

Peak plasma time: 2-4 hr (PO)

Duration: Hypothyroidism, several weeks

Onset, hypothyroidism

Initial response: 3-5 days (PO); 6-8 hr (IV)

Maximum effect: Several weeks

Peak effect: 24 hr (IV)

Onset, myxedema coma

Initial response: 6-12 hr (IV)

Peak effect: 24 hr

Distribution

Protein bound: 99%

Vd: 9-10 L

Metabolism

Deiodinated in blood and then 50% converted to active metabolite, triiodothyronine (T3),
also by liver

Metabolites: T3 (active)

Elimination

Half-life: 9-10 days (hypothyroid); 3-4 days (hyperthyroid); 6-7 days (euthyroid)

Total body clearance: 0.8-1.4 L/day

Excretion: Urine (major), feces (20%)

Administration

IV Preparation

Reconstitution of lyophilized powder

Add 5 mL of 0.9% NaCl vial containing 200 or 500 mcg and shake until a clear
solution is obtained; resultant solutions contain ~40 or 100 mcg/mL, respectively

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/synthroid-levoxyl-levothyroxine-342732 25/26



6/22/26, 7:41 PM Synthroid, Levoxyl (levothyroxine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Use reconstituted solutions immediately; discard any unused portions

Alternatively, add 2 mL 0.9% NaCl to vial containing 200 mcg to produce solution
containing ~100 mcg/mL

Do not admix with IV infusion solutions

Oral Administration

Take tabs with full glass of water preferably 30 min to 1 hr before breakfast on empty
stomach to avoid choking or gagging

Evaluate need for dose adjustments when regularly administering within 1 hr of certain
foods that may affect absorption

Do not use foods that decrease absorption (soybean products) for administering
levothyroxine

Administer oral levothyroxine >4 hr apart from drugs known to interfere with absorption

IV/IM: Administer 50% of PO dose

Patients unable to swallow intact tabs

Crush appropriate dose and place in 5-10 mL of water

Administer resultant suspension by spoon or dropper immediately, do NOT store

Formulary

Adding plans allows you to compare formulary status to other drugs in the same class.

Formulary information is available for health plans only in the United States.

Medscape prescription drug monographs are based on FDA-approved labeling information, unless otherwise noted,
combined with additional data derived from primary medical literature.

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/synthroid-levoxyl-levothyroxine-342732 26/26