6/22/26, 4:37 PM Restoril (temazepam) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
This site is intended for healthcare professionals

temazepam (Rx)
Brand and Other Names: Restoril
Classes: Sedative/Hypnotics

Dosing & Uses

ADULT
Dosage Forms & Strengths

capsule: Schedule IV

7.5mg

15mg

22.5mg

30mg

Insomnia

15-30 mg PO qHS

Debilitated patients: 7.5 mg PO qHS

Discontinuation: Gradually taper after extended therapy; abrupt discontinuation should
be avoided

PEDIATRIC
Safety and efficacy not established

GERIATRIC
Insomnia

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/restoril-temazepam-342911 1/26



6/22/26, 4:37 PM Restoril (temazepam) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

7.5 mg PO qHS; limit use to 10-14 days

Preferred drug in elderly when benzodiazepine indicated because of lack of active
metabolite

Interactions

Interaction Checker

Enter a drug name to check for any interactions. Type a drug, OTC, or herbal  and
temazepam
No Interactions Found
Interactions Found
Contraindicated

Serious

Significant - Monitor Closely

Minor

All Interactions Sort By: Severity
Contraindicated (2)

calcium/magnesium/potassium/sodium oxybates
temazepam, calcium/magnesium/potassium/sodium oxybates. Either increases
effects of the other by pharmacodynamic synergism. Contraindicated.
Coadministration with alcohol or sedative hypnotics are contraindicated because of
additive CNS depression.

sodium oxybate
temazepam, sodium oxybate. Either increases effects of the other by
pharmacodynamic synergism. Contraindicated. Coadministration with alcohol or
sedative hypnotics are contraindicated because of additive CNS depression.

Serious (24)

benzhydrocodone/acetaminophen
benzhydrocodone/acetaminophen, temazepam. Either increases toxicity of the other
by pharmacodynamic synergism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Profound sedation,
respiratory depression, coma, and death may result if coadministered. Reserve
concomitant prescribing of these drugs in patients for whom other treatment
options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required.
Monitor closely for signs of respiratory depression and sedation.

benzhydrocodone/acetaminophen and temazepam both increase sedation. Avoid or

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/restoril-temazepam-342911 2/26



6/22/26, 4:37 PM Restoril (temazepam) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Use Alternate Drug. Limit use to patients for whom alternative treatment options
are inadequate

buprenorphine subdermal implant
buprenorphine subdermal implant and temazepam both increase sedation. Avoid or
Use Alternate Drug. Limit use to patients for whom alternative treatment options
are inadequate

buprenorphine transdermal
buprenorphine transdermal and temazepam both increase sedation. Avoid or Use
Alternate Drug. Limit use to patients for whom alternative treatment options are
inadequate

buprenorphine, long-acting injection
buprenorphine, long-acting injection and temazepam both increase sedation. Avoid
or Use Alternate Drug. Limit use to patients for whom alternative treatment options
are inadequate

fentanyl
fentanyl, temazepam. Either increases effects of the other by pharmacodynamic
synergism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Coadministration with other CNS
depressants, such as skeletal muscle relaxants, may cause respiratory depression,
hypotension, profound sedation, coma, and/or death. Consider dose reduction of
either or both agents to avoid serious adverse effects. Monitor for hypotension,
respiratory depression, and profound sedation.

fentanyl and temazepam both increase sedation. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Limit
use to patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate

fentanyl intranasal
fentanyl intranasal, temazepam. Either increases effects of the other by
pharmacodynamic synergism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Coadministration with
other CNS depressants, such as skeletal muscle relaxants, may cause respiratory
depression, hypotension, profound sedation, coma, and/or death. Consider dose
reduction of either or both agents to avoid serious adverse effects. Monitor for
hypotension, respiratory depression, and profound sedation.

fentanyl intranasal and temazepam both increase sedation. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug. Limit use to patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate

fentanyl iontophoretic transdermal system
fentanyl iontophoretic transdermal system and temazepam both increase sedation.
Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Limit use to patients for whom alternative treatment
options are inadequate

fentanyl transdermal
fentanyl transdermal, temazepam. Either increases effects of the other by
pharmacodynamic synergism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Coadministration with
other CNS depressants, such as skeletal muscle relaxants, may cause respiratory
depression, hypotension, profound sedation, coma, and/or death. Consider dose

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/restoril-temazepam-342911 3/26



6/22/26, 4:37 PM Restoril (temazepam) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

reduction of either or both agents to avoid serious adverse effects. Monitor for
hypotension, respiratory depression, and profound sedation.

fentanyl transdermal and temazepam both increase sedation. Avoid or Use
Alternate Drug. Limit use to patients for whom alternative treatment options are
inadequate

fentanyl transmucosal
fentanyl transmucosal, temazepam. Either increases effects of the other by
pharmacodynamic synergism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Coadministration with
other CNS depressants, such as skeletal muscle relaxants, may cause respiratory
depression, hypotension, profound sedation, coma, and/or death. Consider dose
reduction of either or both agents to avoid serious adverse effects. Monitor for
hypotension, respiratory depression, and profound sedation.

fentanyl transmucosal and temazepam both increase sedation. Avoid or Use
Alternate Drug. Limit use to patients for whom alternative treatment options are
inadequate

hydrocodone
hydrocodone, temazepam. Either increases toxicity of the other by
pharmacodynamic synergism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Profound sedation,
respiratory depression, coma, and death may result if coadministered. Reserve
concomitant prescribing of these drugs in patients for whom other treatment
options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required.
Monitor closely for signs of respiratory depression and sedation.

lemborexant
lemborexant, temazepam. Either increases effects of the other by sedation. Avoid or
Use Alternate Drug. Use of lemborexant with other drugs to treat insomnia is not
recommended.

methohexital
methohexital and temazepam both increase sedation. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
Limit use to patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate

metoclopramide intranasal
temazepam, metoclopramide intranasal. Either increases effects of the other by
Other (see comment). Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Comment: Avoid use of
metoclopramide intranasal or interacting drug, depending on importance of drug to
patient.

olopatadine intranasal
temazepam and olopatadine intranasal both increase sedation. Avoid or Use
Alternate Drug. Coadministration increases risk of CNS depression, which can lead
to additive impairment of psychomotor performance and cause daytime impairment.

opicapone
opicapone and temazepam both increase sedation. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/restoril-temazepam-342911 4/26



6/22/26, 4:37 PM Restoril (temazepam) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Limit use to patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate

remifentanil
remifentanil and temazepam both increase sedation. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
Limit use to patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate

ropeginterferon alfa 2b
ropeginterferon alfa 2b and temazepam both increase Other (see comment). Avoid
or Use Alternate Drug. Narcotics, hypnotics or sedatives can produce additive
neuropsychiatric side effects. Avoid use and monitor patients receiving the
combination for effects of excessive CNS toxicity.

selinexor
selinexor, temazepam. unspecified interaction mechanism. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug. Patients treated with selinexor may experience neurological toxicities. Avoid
taking selinexor with other medications that may cause dizziness or confusion.

sodium oxybate
sodium oxybate and temazepam both increase sedation. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug. Limit use to patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate

sufentanil SL
sufentanil SL, temazepam. Either increases toxicity of the other by
pharmacodynamic synergism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Coadministration may
result in hypotension, profound sedation, respiratory depression, coma, and death.
Reserve concomitant prescribing of these drugs in patients for whom other
treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum
required. Monitor closely for signs of respiratory depression and sedation.

thalidomide
thalidomide and temazepam both increase sedation. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
Limit use to patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate

tolcapone
tolcapone and temazepam both increase sedation. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
Limit use to patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate

valerian
valerian and temazepam both increase sedation. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

zuranolone
temazepam, zuranolone. Either increases effects of the other by pharmacodynamic
synergism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Coadministration of zuranolone with other
CNS depressants may increase impairment of psychomotor performance or CNS
depressant effects. If unavoidable, consider dose reduction. .

Monitor Closely (217)

acetaminophen/phenyltoloxamine

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/restoril-temazepam-342911 5/26



6/22/26, 4:37 PM Restoril (temazepam) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

acetaminophen/phenyltoloxamine and temazepam both increase sedation. Use
Caution/Monitor.

acrivastine
acrivastine and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

alfentanil
temazepam and alfentanil both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

alprazolam
alprazolam and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

amisulpride
amisulpride and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

amitriptyline
temazepam and amitriptyline both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

amoxapine
temazepam and amoxapine both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

amphetamine
temazepam increases and amphetamine decreases sedation. Effect of interaction is
not clear, use caution. Use Caution/Monitor.

apomorphine
temazepam and apomorphine both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

aripiprazole
temazepam and aripiprazole both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

armodafinil
temazepam increases and armodafinil decreases sedation. Effect of interaction is
not clear, use caution. Use Caution/Monitor.

asenapine
asenapine and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

asenapine transdermal
asenapine transdermal and temazepam both increase sedation. Use
Caution/Monitor.

avapritinib
avapritinib and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

azelastine
azelastine and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

baclofen

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/restoril-temazepam-342911 6/26



6/22/26, 4:37 PM Restoril (temazepam) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

temazepam and baclofen both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

belladonna and opium
temazepam and belladonna and opium both increase sedation. Use
Caution/Monitor.

benperidol
temazepam and benperidol both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

benzphetamine
temazepam increases and benzphetamine decreases sedation. Effect of interaction
is not clear, use caution. Use Caution/Monitor.

brexanolone
brexanolone, temazepam. Either increases toxicity of the other by sedation. Use
Caution/Monitor.

brexpiprazole
brexpiprazole and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

brimonidine
brimonidine and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

brimonidine topical
brimonidine topical and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

brivaracetam
brivaracetam and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

brompheniramine
brompheniramine and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

buprenorphine
temazepam and buprenorphine both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

buprenorphine buccal
temazepam and buprenorphine buccal both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

buprenorphine subdermal implant
temazepam increases toxicity of buprenorphine subdermal implant by
pharmacodynamic synergism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Studies have shown
that the combination of benzodiazepines and buprenorphine altered the usual
ceiling effect on buprenorphine-induced respiratory depression, making the
respiratory effects of buprenorphine appear similar to those of full opioid agonists.
There have been postmarketing reports of coma and death with coadministration of
buprenorphine and benzodiazepines. In many, but not all of these cases,
buprenorphine was misused by self-injection. If a benzodiazepine must be used for
an indication other than seizures, lower the benzodiazepine initial dose and
cautiously titrate to clinical response.

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/restoril-temazepam-342911 7/26



6/22/26, 4:37 PM Restoril (temazepam) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

buprenorphine, long-acting injection
temazepam increases toxicity of buprenorphine, long-acting injection by
pharmacodynamic synergism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Coadministration of
buprenorphine and benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants increases risk of
adverse reactions including overdose, respiratory depression, and death. Cessation
of benzodiazepines or other CNS depressants is preferred in most cases. In some
cases, monitoring at a higher level of care for tapering CNS depressants may be
appropriate. In others, gradually tapering a patient off of a prescribed
benzodiazepine or other CNS depressant or decreasing to the lowest effective dose
may be appropriate.

butalbital
butalbital and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

butorphanol
temazepam and butorphanol both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

caffeine
temazepam increases and caffeine decreases sedation. Effect of interaction is not
clear, use caution. Use Caution/Monitor.

carbachol/brimonidine ophthalmic
carbachol/brimonidine ophthalmic and temazepam both increase sedation. Use
Caution/Monitor.

carbinoxamine
carbinoxamine and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

cariprazine
cariprazine and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

carisoprodol
temazepam and carisoprodol both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

cenobamate
cenobamate, temazepam. Either increases effects of the other by sedation. Use
Caution/Monitor.

chlordiazepoxide
chlordiazepoxide and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

chlorpheniramine
chlorpheniramine and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

chlorpromazine
temazepam and chlorpromazine both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

chlorzoxazone
temazepam and chlorzoxazone both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/restoril-temazepam-342911 8/26



6/22/26, 4:37 PM Restoril (temazepam) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

cinnarizine
cinnarizine and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

clemastine
clemastine and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

clobazam
temazepam, clobazam. Other (see comment). Use Caution/Monitor. Comment:
Concomitant administration can increase the potential for CNS effects (e.g.,
increased sedation or respiratory depression).

clobazam and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

clomipramine
temazepam and clomipramine both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

clonazepam
clonazepam and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

clonidine
clonidine, temazepam. Either increases toxicity of the other by pharmacodynamic
synergism. Use Caution/Monitor. Coadministration enhances CNS depressant
effects.

clonidine and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

clorazepate
clorazepate and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

clozapine
temazepam and clozapine both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

codeine
temazepam and codeine both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

cyclobenzaprine
temazepam and cyclobenzaprine both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

cyproheptadine
cyproheptadine and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

dantrolene
temazepam and dantrolene both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

daridorexant
temazepam and daridorexant both increase sedation. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely. Coadministration increases risk of CNS depression, which can lead to
additive impairment of psychomotor performance and cause daytime impairment.

desflurane

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/restoril-temazepam-342911 9/26



6/22/26, 4:37 PM Restoril (temazepam) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

desflurane and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

desipramine
temazepam and desipramine both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

desloratadine
desloratadine and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

deutetrabenazine
temazepam and deutetrabenazine both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

dexbrompheniramine
dexbrompheniramine and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

dexchlorpheniramine
dexchlorpheniramine and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

dexfenfluramine
temazepam increases and dexfenfluramine decreases sedation. Effect of interaction
is not clear, use caution. Use Caution/Monitor.

dexmedetomidine
temazepam and dexmedetomidine both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

dexmethylphenidate
temazepam increases and dexmethylphenidate decreases sedation. Effect of
interaction is not clear, use caution. Use Caution/Monitor.

dextroamphetamine
temazepam increases and dextroamphetamine decreases sedation. Effect of
interaction is not clear, use caution. Use Caution/Monitor.

dextromoramide
temazepam and dextromoramide both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

diamorphine
temazepam and diamorphine both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

diazepam
diazepam and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

diazepam buccal
diazepam buccal and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

diazepam buccal, temazepam. Either increases effects of the other by
pharmacodynamic synergism. Use Caution/Monitor. Coadministration may
potentiate the CNS-depressant effects of each drug.

diazepam intranasal

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/restoril-temazepam-342911 10/26



6/22/26, 4:37 PM Restoril (temazepam) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

diazepam intranasal, temazepam. Either increases effects of the other by
pharmacodynamic synergism. Use Caution/Monitor. Coadministration may
potentiate the CNS-depressant effects of each drug.

diazepam intranasal and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

diethylpropion
temazepam increases and diethylpropion decreases sedation. Effect of interaction is
not clear, use caution. Use Caution/Monitor.

difelikefalin
difelikefalin and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

difenoxin hcl
temazepam and difenoxin hcl both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

dimenhydrinate
dimenhydrinate and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

diphenhydramine
diphenhydramine and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

diphenoxylate hcl
temazepam and diphenoxylate hcl both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

dipipanone
temazepam and dipipanone both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

dobutamine
temazepam increases and dobutamine decreases sedation. Effect of interaction is
not clear, use caution. Use Caution/Monitor.

dopamine
temazepam increases and dopamine decreases sedation. Effect of interaction is not
clear, use caution. Use Caution/Monitor.

dopexamine
temazepam increases and dopexamine decreases sedation. Effect of interaction is
not clear, use caution. Use Caution/Monitor.

dosulepin
temazepam and dosulepin both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

doxepin
temazepam and doxepin both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

doxylamine
temazepam and doxylamine both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

droperidol

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/restoril-temazepam-342911 11/26



6/22/26, 4:37 PM Restoril (temazepam) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

temazepam and droperidol both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

ephedrine
temazepam increases and ephedrine decreases sedation. Effect of interaction is not
clear, use caution. Use Caution/Monitor.

epinephrine
temazepam increases and epinephrine decreases sedation. Effect of interaction is
not clear, use caution. Use Caution/Monitor.

epinephrine racemic
temazepam increases and epinephrine racemic decreases sedation. Effect of
interaction is not clear, use caution. Use Caution/Monitor.

esketamine intranasal
esketamine intranasal, temazepam. Either increases toxicity of the other by
sedation. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.

estazolam
estazolam and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

eszopiclone
eszopiclone and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

ethanol
temazepam and ethanol both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

etomidate
etomidate and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

fenfluramine
temazepam increases and fenfluramine decreases sedation. Effect of interaction is
not clear, use caution. Use Caution/Monitor.

flibanserin
temazepam and flibanserin both increase sedation. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.
Risk for sedation increased if flibanserin is coadministration with other CNS
depressants.

fluphenazine
temazepam and fluphenazine both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

flurazepam
flurazepam and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

gabapentin
gabapentin, temazepam. Either increases effects of the other by pharmacodynamic
synergism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Coadministration of CNS depressants
can result in serious, life-threatening, and fatal respiratory depression. Use lowest
dose possible and monitor for respiratory depression and sedation.

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/restoril-temazepam-342911 12/26



6/22/26, 4:37 PM Restoril (temazepam) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

gabapentin and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

gabapentin enacarbil
gabapentin enacarbil, temazepam. Either increases effects of the other by
pharmacodynamic synergism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Coadministration of
CNS depressants can result in serious, life-threatening, and fatal respiratory
depression. Use lowest dose possible and monitor for respiratory depression and
sedation.

gabapentin enacarbil and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

ganaxolone
temazepam and ganaxolone both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

guanfacine
guanfacine and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

haloperidol
temazepam and haloperidol both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

hydromorphone
temazepam and hydromorphone both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

hydroxyzine
hydroxyzine and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

imipramine
temazepam and imipramine both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

isoproterenol
temazepam increases and isoproterenol decreases sedation. Effect of interaction is
not clear, use caution. Use Caution/Monitor.

ketamine
ketamine and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

ketotifen, ophthalmic
temazepam and ketotifen, ophthalmic both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

lamotrigine
lamotrigine and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

levetiracetam
levetiracetam and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

levocetirizine
levocetirizine and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

levonorgestrel oral/ethinylestradiol/ferrous bisglycinate

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/restoril-temazepam-342911 13/26



6/22/26, 4:37 PM Restoril (temazepam) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

levonorgestrel oral/ethinylestradiol/ferrous bisglycinate will decrease the level or
effect of temazepam by unknown mechanism. Use Caution/Monitor.

levorphanol
temazepam and levorphanol both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

lisdexamfetamine
temazepam increases and lisdexamfetamine decreases sedation. Effect of
interaction is not clear, use caution. Use Caution/Monitor.

lofepramine
temazepam and lofepramine both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

lofexidine
temazepam and lofexidine both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

loprazolam
loprazolam and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

loratadine
loratadine and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

lorazepam
lorazepam and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

lormetazepam
lormetazepam and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

loxapine
temazepam and loxapine both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

loxapine inhaled
temazepam and loxapine inhaled both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

lumateperone
lumateperone and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

lurasidone
lurasidone and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

marijuana
temazepam and marijuana both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

meclizine
meclizine and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

melatonin
temazepam and melatonin both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

meperidine

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/restoril-temazepam-342911 14/26



6/22/26, 4:37 PM Restoril (temazepam) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

temazepam and meperidine both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

meprobamate
temazepam and meprobamate both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

metaproterenol
temazepam increases and metaproterenol decreases sedation. Effect of interaction
is not clear, use caution. Use Caution/Monitor.

metaxalone
temazepam and metaxalone both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

methadone
temazepam and methadone both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

methamphetamine
temazepam increases and methamphetamine decreases sedation. Effect of
interaction is not clear, use caution. Use Caution/Monitor.

methocarbamol
temazepam and methocarbamol both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

methsuximide
methsuximide and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

methylenedioxymethamphetamine
temazepam increases and methylenedioxymethamphetamine decreases sedation.
Effect of interaction is not clear, use caution. Use Caution/Monitor.

midazolam
midazolam and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

midazolam intranasal
midazolam intranasal, temazepam. Either increases toxicity of the other by
pharmacodynamic synergism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Concomitant use of
barbiturates, alcohol, or other CNS depressants may increase the risk of
hypoventilation, airway obstruction, desaturation, or apnea and may contribute to
profound and/or prolonged drug effect.

midodrine
temazepam increases and midodrine decreases sedation. Effect of interaction is not
clear, use caution. Use Caution/Monitor.

mirtazapine
temazepam and mirtazapine both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

modafinil
temazepam increases and modafinil decreases sedation. Effect of interaction is not
clear, use caution. Use Caution/Monitor.

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/restoril-temazepam-342911 15/26



6/22/26, 4:37 PM Restoril (temazepam) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

molindone
molindone and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

morphine
temazepam and morphine both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

motherwort
temazepam and motherwort both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

moxonidine
temazepam and moxonidine both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

nabilone
temazepam and nabilone both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

nalbuphine
temazepam and nalbuphine both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

nitrous oxide
nitrous oxide and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

norepinephrine
temazepam increases and norepinephrine decreases sedation. Effect of interaction
is not clear, use caution. Use Caution/Monitor.

nortriptyline
temazepam and nortriptyline both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

olanzapine
temazepam and olanzapine both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

olanzapine/samidorphan
temazepam, olanzapine/samidorphan. Either increases effects of the other by
pharmacodynamic synergism. Use Caution/Monitor. Coadministration of diazepam,
alcohol, or other CNS acting drugs may potentiate orthostatic hypotension
observed with olanzapine. Additive sedation may also occur.

opium tincture
temazepam and opium tincture both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

orphenadrine
temazepam and orphenadrine both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

oxazepam
oxazepam and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

oxycodone
temazepam and oxycodone both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

oxymorphone

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/restoril-temazepam-342911 16/26



6/22/26, 4:37 PM Restoril (temazepam) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

temazepam and oxymorphone both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

paliperidone
temazepam and paliperidone both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

papaveretum
temazepam and papaveretum both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

papaverine
temazepam and papaverine both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

pentazocine
temazepam and pentazocine both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

pentobarbital
pentobarbital and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

perphenazine
temazepam and perphenazine both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

phendimetrazine
temazepam increases and phendimetrazine decreases sedation. Effect of interaction
is not clear, use caution. Use Caution/Monitor.

phenobarbital
phenobarbital and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

phentermine
temazepam increases and phentermine decreases sedation. Effect of interaction is
not clear, use caution. Use Caution/Monitor.

phenylephrine
temazepam increases and phenylephrine decreases sedation. Effect of interaction is
not clear, use caution. Use Caution/Monitor.

phenylephrine PO
temazepam increases and phenylephrine PO decreases sedation. Effect of
interaction is not clear, use caution. Use Caution/Monitor. .

pholcodine
temazepam and pholcodine both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

pimozide
temazepam and pimozide both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

pirbuterol
temazepam increases and pirbuterol decreases sedation. Effect of interaction is not
clear, use caution. Use Caution/Monitor.

pregabalin

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/restoril-temazepam-342911 17/26



6/22/26, 4:37 PM Restoril (temazepam) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

pregabalin, temazepam. Either increases effects of the other by pharmacodynamic
synergism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Coadministration of CNS depressants
can result in serious, life-threatening, and fatal respiratory depression. Use lowest
dose possible and monitor for respiratory depression and sedation.

primidone
primidone and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

prochlorperazine
temazepam and prochlorperazine both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

promethazine
promethazine and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

propofol
propofol and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

propylhexedrine
temazepam increases and propylhexedrine decreases sedation. Effect of interaction
is not clear, use caution. Use Caution/Monitor.

protriptyline
temazepam and protriptyline both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

pyrilamine
pyrilamine and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

quazepam
quazepam and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

quetiapine
temazepam and quetiapine both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

ramelteon
temazepam and ramelteon both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

remimazolam
remimazolam, temazepam. Either increases toxicity of the other by sedation. Modify
Therapy/Monitor Closely. Coadministration may result in profound sedation,
respiratory depression, coma, and/or death. Continuously monitor vital signs during
sedation and recovery period if coadministered. Carefully titrate remimazolam dose
if administered with opioid analgesics and/or sedative/hypnotics.

risperidone
temazepam and risperidone both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

salmeterol
temazepam increases and salmeterol decreases sedation. Effect of interaction is not
clear, use caution. Use Caution/Monitor.

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/restoril-temazepam-342911 18/26



6/22/26, 4:37 PM Restoril (temazepam) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

scopolamine
scopolamine and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

scopolamine intranasal
scopolamine intranasal and temazepam both increase sedation. Use
Caution/Monitor.

scullcap
temazepam and scullcap both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

sevoflurane
sevoflurane and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

shepherd's purse
temazepam and shepherd's purse both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

stiripentol
stiripentol, temazepam. Either increases effects of the other by sedation. Use
Caution/Monitor. Concomitant use stiripentol with other CNS depressants, including
alcohol, may increase the risk of sedation and somnolence.

sufentanil
temazepam and sufentanil both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

tapentadol
temazepam and tapentadol both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

tasimelteon
tasimelteon and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

terbutaline
temazepam increases and terbutaline decreases sedation. Effect of interaction is not
clear, use caution. Use Caution/Monitor.

tetrabenazine
tetrabenazine and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

thioridazine
temazepam and thioridazine both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

thiothixene
temazepam and thiothixene both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

tiagabine
tiagabine and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

tizanidine
tizanidine and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

topiramate

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/restoril-temazepam-342911 19/26



6/22/26, 4:37 PM Restoril (temazepam) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

temazepam and topiramate both increase sedation. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely.

tramadol
temazepam and tramadol both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

trazodone
temazepam and trazodone both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

triazolam
temazepam and triazolam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

triclofos
temazepam and triclofos both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

trifluoperazine
temazepam and trifluoperazine both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

trimipramine
temazepam and trimipramine both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

triprolidine
triprolidine and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

valproic acid
valproic acid and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

vigabatrin
vigabatrin and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

xylometazoline
temazepam increases and xylometazoline decreases sedation. Effect of interaction
is not clear, use caution. Use Caution/Monitor.

yohimbine
temazepam increases and yohimbine decreases sedation. Effect of interaction is not
clear, use caution. Use Caution/Monitor.

zaleplon
zaleplon and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

ziconotide
temazepam and ziconotide both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

ziprasidone
temazepam and ziprasidone both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

zolpidem
zolpidem and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/restoril-temazepam-342911 20/26



6/22/26, 4:37 PM Restoril (temazepam) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

zonisamide
zonisamide and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

zotepine
temazepam and zotepine both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

zuranolone
zuranolone and temazepam both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

Minor (12)

ciprofloxacin
ciprofloxacin increases levels of temazepam by decreasing metabolism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

eucalyptus
temazepam and eucalyptus both increase sedation. Minor/Significance Unknown.

fleroxacin
fleroxacin increases levels of temazepam by decreasing metabolism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

gemifloxacin
gemifloxacin increases levels of temazepam by decreasing metabolism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

green tea
green tea decreases effects of temazepam by pharmacodynamic antagonism.
Minor/Significance Unknown. Caffeine component of green tea may decrease
sedative effects of benzodiazepines.

levofloxacin
levofloxacin increases levels of temazepam by decreasing metabolism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

moxifloxacin
moxifloxacin increases levels of temazepam by decreasing metabolism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

ofloxacin
ofloxacin increases levels of temazepam by decreasing metabolism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

rifabutin
rifabutin decreases levels of temazepam by increasing metabolism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

sage

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/restoril-temazepam-342911 21/26



6/22/26, 4:37 PM Restoril (temazepam) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

temazepam and sage both increase sedation. Minor/Significance Unknown.

vinpocetine
temazepam increases effects of vinpocetine by unspecified interaction mechanism.
Minor/Significance Unknown. Desirable interaction enhanced memory improvement
(based on preliminary trial).

zolpidem
zolpidem, temazepam. Either increases effects of the other by pharmacodynamic
synergism. Minor/Significance Unknown. Additive CNS depression.

Adverse Effects

1-10%

Drowsiness (9.1%)

Dizziness (4.5%)

Lethargy (4.5%)

Hangover (2.5%)

Diarrhea (1.7%)

Euphoria (1.5%)

Weakness (1.4%)

Confusion (1.3%)

Vertigo (1.2%)

< 1%

Amnesia

Angioedema

Blood dyscrasias

Sleep-related behavior (eg, sleep driving, sleep cooking, sleep eating)

Ataxia

Warnings

Black Box Warnings

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/restoril-temazepam-342911 22/26



6/22/26, 4:37 PM Restoril (temazepam) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Risks from concomitant use with opioids

Concomitant use of benzodiazepines and opioids may result in profound sedation,
respiratory depression, coma, and death

Reserve concomitant prescribing of these drugs for use in patients for whom
alternative treatment options are inadequate

Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required

Follow patients for signs and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation

Inform patients and caregivers that potentially fatal additive effects may occur if
drug is used with opioids and that such drugs should not be used concomitantly
unless supervised by a health care provider

Prescribers should advise caregivers that they expect to be informed immediately if
a patient develops any new findings which are not typical of the patient’s
characteristic seizure episode

Addiction, abuse, and misuse

On September 2020, FDA addressed serious risks of benzodiazepine addiction,
abuse, and misuse, which can lead to overdose and death

Physical dependence can occur when taken steadily for several days to weeks, even
as prescribed

Stopping abruptly or reducing dosage too quickly can result in withdrawal
reactions, including seizures, which can be life-threatening

Abuse and misuse of benzodiazepines commonly involve concomitant use of other
medications, alcohol, and/or illicit substances, which is associated with an increased
frequency of serious adverse outcomes; before prescribing and throughout
treatment, assess each patient’s risk for abuse, misuse, and addiction

Assess each patient’s risk prior to prescribing and monitor regularly for the
development of these conditions

Risks of dependence and withdrawal increase with longer treatment duration and
higher daily dose; although injection is indicated only for intermittent use, if used
more frequently than recommended, abrupt discontinuation or rapid dosage
reduction may precipitate acute withdrawal reactions, including seizures, which can
be life-threatening; use gradual taper when discontinuing therapy to reduce
withdrawal reactions risk

Contraindications

Documented hypersensitivity

Acute alcohol intoxication

Narrow-angle glaucoma (questionable)

Caution

Use caution in COPD, sleep apnea, renal/hepatic disease, impaired gag reflex, open-
angle glaucoma (questionable), alcoholism, respiratory disease, depression, suicidal

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/restoril-temazepam-342911 23/26



6/22/26, 4:37 PM Restoril (temazepam) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

ideation

May impair ability to perform hazardous tasks

Caution with IV use in shock, coma, and depressed respiration and in patients who
recently received other respiratory depressants

Anterograde amnesia may occur

Use caution in patients with history of drug abuse or acute alcoholism; tolerance,
psychological and physical dependence may occur with prolonged use

Use in myasthenia gravis is allowed in limited circumstances

Use caution in severe respiratory depression and depressed neuroses, psychotic
reactions

Paradoxical hyperactive aggressive behavior reported

Therapy can cause drowsiness and a decreased level of consciousness; patients,
particularly the elderly, are at higher risk of falls

May cause hyperactive or aggressive behavior

Use of drug, particularly in patients at elevated risk of abuse, necessitates counseling
about risks and proper use of drug along with monitoring for signs and symptoms of
abuse, misuse, and addiction; do not exceed recommended dosing frequency

Avoid or minimize concomitant use of CNS depressants and other substances associated
with abuse, misuse, and addiction (eg, opioid analgesics, stimulants); advise patients on
proper disposal of unused drug; if a substance use disorder is suspected, evaluate
patient and institute (or refer them for) early treatment, as appropriate

For patients using treated more frequently than recommended, to reduce risk of
withdrawal reactions, use a gradual taper to discontinue therapy (a patient-specific plan
should be used to taper the dose)

Patients at an increased risk of withdrawal adverse reactions after benzodiazepine
discontinuation or rapid dosage reduction include those who take higher dosages, and
those who have had longer durations of use

In some cases, benzodiazepine users have developed a protracted withdrawal syndrome
with withdrawal symptoms lasting weeks to more than 12 months

Pregnancy & Lactation

Pregnancy

There is pregnancy registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in women exposed to
psychiatric medications during pregnancy; healthcare providers are encouraged to
register patients by calling the National Pregnancy Registry for psychiatric Medications

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/restoril-temazepam-342911 24/26



6/22/26, 4:37 PM Restoril (temazepam) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

at 1-866-961-2388 or visiting online
athttps://womensmentalhealth.org/pregnancyregistry/

Neonates born to mothers using benzodiazepines late in pregnancy reported to
experience symptoms of sedation and/or neonatal withdrawal; available data from
published observational studies of pregnant women exposed to benzodiazepines do not
report a clear association with benzodiazepines and major birth defects

Benzodiazepines cross the placenta and may produce respiratory depression, hypotonia
and sedation in neonates; monitor neonates exposed during pregnancy or labor for signs
of sedation, respiratory depression, hypotonia, and feeding problems; monitor neonates
exposed to therapy during pregnancy for signs of withdrawal; manage these neonates
accordingly

Lactation

This drug is present in breast milk; there are reports of sedation, poor feeding and poor
weight gain in infants exposed to benzodiazepines through breast milk

The effects of this drug on milk production are unknown; the developmental and health
benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with the mother’s clinical need for
therapy and any potential adverse effects on breastfed infant from therapy or from
underlying maternal condition infants exposed to therapy through breast milk should be
monitored for sedation, poor feeding and poor weight gain

Pregnancy Categories

A: Generally acceptable. Controlled studies in pregnant women show no evidence of
fetal risk.

B: May be acceptable. Either animal studies show no risk but human studies not available
or animal studies showed minor risks and human studies done and showed no risk.

C: Use with caution if benefits outweigh risks. Animal studies show risk and human
studies not available or neither animal nor human studies done.

D: Use in LIFE-THREATENING emergencies when no safer drug available. Positive
evidence of human fetal risk.

X: Do not use in pregnancy. Risks involved outweigh potential benefits. Safer alternatives
exist.

NA: Information not available.

Pharmacology

Mechanism of Action

Depresses all levels of CNS (eg, limbic and reticular formation), possibly by increasing
membrane permeability to chloride ions, which in turn increases the inhibitory activity of
GABA on neuronal excitability.

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/restoril-temazepam-342911 25/26



6/22/26, 4:37 PM Restoril (temazepam) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Absorption

Peak plasma time: 2-3 hr

Peak plasma concentration: 260-210 ng/mL

Distribution

Protein bound: 96%

Vd: 1.4 L/kg

Metabolism

Metabolized by CYP3A4 (minor), glucuronic acid conjugation

Metabolites: Inactive

Elimination

Half-life elimination: 9.5-12.4 hr

Excretion: Urine (80-90%)

Formulary

Adding plans allows you to compare formulary status to other drugs in the same class.

Formulary information is available for health plans only in the United States.

Medscape prescription drug monographs are based on FDA-approved labeling information, unless otherwise noted,
combined with additional data derived from primary medical literature.

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/restoril-temazepam-342911 26/26