Brand and Other Names: Latuda
Classes: Antipsychotics, 2nd Generation

Dosing & Uses
ADULT
Dosage Forms & Strengths
tablet
• 20mg
• 40mg
• 60mg
• 80mg
• 120mg

Schizophrenia
Indicated for schizophrenia
40 mg PO qDay initially; not to exceed 160 mg/day
Initial dose titration is not required; shown to be effective in a dose range of 40-160 mg/day

Bipolar Depression
Monotherapy
• Indicated as monotherapy for adults with major depressive episode associated with bipolar I disorder (bipolar depression)
• 20 mg PO qDay initially; may increase dose if needed, not to exceed 120 mg/day
In monotherapy study, higher dose range (80-120 mg/day) did not provide additional efficacy compared to the lower dose range (20-60 mg/day)

Adjunctive therapy
• Indicated as adjunctive therapy for major depressive episodes associated with bipolar I disorder with lithium or valproate
• 20 mg PO qDay initially; may increase dose if needed, not to exceed 120 mg/day

Dosage Modifications
CYP3A4 inhibitors or inducers
• Coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors
• Strong CYP3A4 inhibitor: Contraindicated; do not coadminister (see Contraindications)
• Moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor (eg, diltiazem, atazanavir, erythromycin, fluconazole, verapamil): Reduce dose to 50% of original dose, not to exceed 80 mg/day starting dose is 20 mg/day
• Grapefruit and grapefruit juice: Avoid coadministration
• Coadministration with CYP3A4 inducers
• Strong CYP3A4 inducer: Contraindicated; do not coadminister (see Contraindications)
• Moderate CYP3A4 inducer (eg, bosentan, efavirenz, etravirine, modafinil, nafcillin): It may be necessary to increase lurasidone dose after chronic treatment (ie, ≥7 days) with the inducer

Renal impairment
• Mild (CrCl≥50 mL/min): No dosage adjustment required
• Moderate-to-severe (CrCl<50 mL/min): 20 mg/day initially; not to exceed 80 mg/day

Hepatic impairment
• Mild (Child-Pugh class A): No dosage adjustment necessary
• Moderate (Child-Pugh class B [Score 7-9]): 20 mg/day initially; not to exceed 80 mg/day
• Severe (Child-Pugh class C [Score 10-15]): 20 mg/day initially; not to exceed 40 mg/day

Dosing Considerations
Effectiveness for longer-term use (ie, >6 weeks) has not been established in controlled studies; therefore, the physician who elects to use lurasidone for extended periods should periodically re-evaluate the long-term usefulness of the drug for the individual patient

PEDIATRIC
Schizophrenia
Indicated for treatment of schizophrenia in adolescents aged 13-17 years
<13 years: Safety and efficacy not established
13-17 years
• Starting dose: 40 mg PO qDay; initial dose titration is not required
• Effective dosage range: 40-80 mg/day not to exceed 80 mg/day

Bipolar Depression
Indicated as monotherapy for major depressive episode associated with bipolar I disorder (bipolar depression) in adolescents aged 10-17 yr
20 mg PO qDay; initial dose titration is not required
May increase dose after 1 week based on clinical response; not to exceed 80 mg qDay
Effective dose range is 20-80 mg/day
Clinical studies found most patients (67%) received 20-40 mg/day

Dosage Modifications
CYP3A4 inhibitors or inducers
• Coadministration with CYP3A4 inhibitors
• Strong CYP3A4 inhibitor: Contraindicated; do not coadminister (see Contraindications)
• Moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor (eg, diltiazem, atazanavir, erythromycin, fluconazole, verapamil): Reduce dose to 50% of original dose, not to exceed 80 mg/day starting dose is 20 mg/day
• Grapefruit and grapefruit juice: Avoid coadministration
• Coadministration with CYP3A4 inducers
• Strong CYP3A4 inducer: Contraindicated; do not coadminister (see Contraindications)

Renal impairment
• Mild (CrCl≥50 mL/min): No dosage adjustment required
• Moderate-to-severe (CrCl<50 mL/min): 20 mg/day initially; not to exceed 80 mg/day

Hepatic impairment
• Mild (Child-Pugh class A): No dosage adjustment necessary
• Moderate (Child-Pugh class B [Score 7-9]): 20 mg/day initially; not to exceed 80 mg/day
• Severe (Child-Pugh class C [Score 10-15]): 20 mg/day initially; not to exceed 40 mg/day

Dosing Considerations
Effectiveness for longer-term use (ie, >6 weeks) has not been established in controlled studies; therefore, the physician who elects to use lurasidone for extended periods should periodically re-evaluate the long-term usefulness of the drug for the individual patient

Interactions
Interaction Checker
Enter a drug name to check for any interactions. Type a drug, OTC, or herbal and lurasidone
No Interactions Found
Interactions Found
Contraindicated
Serious
Significant - Monitor Closely
Minor
All Interactions Sort By: Severity

Contraindicated

carbamazepine
carbamazepine decreases levels of lurasidone by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated; decreases lurasidone Cmax by ~85%.

ceritinib
ceritinib will increase the level or effect of lurasidone by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated.

chloramphenicol
chloramphenicol increases levels of lurasidone by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated. Coadministration of lurasidone and strong CYP3A4 inhibitors is contraindicated.

• clarithromycin
clarithromycin will increase the level or effect of lurasidone by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated. May results in an increase in lurasidone exposure and the potential for serious adverse reactions

• cobicistat
cobicistat will increase the level or effect of lurasidone by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated. Potential for increased systemic exposure of lurasidone resulting in increased risk for QT prolongation.

• conivaptan
conivaptan increases levels of lurasidone by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated. Coadministration of lurasidone and strong CYP3A4 inhibitors is contraindicated.

darunavir
darunavir increases levels of lurasidone by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated. Coadministration of lurasidone and strong CYP3A4 inhibitors is contraindicated.

dexamethasone
dexamethasone decreases levels of lurasidone by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated; decreases lurasidone Cmax by ~85%.

• dopamine
dopamine increases toxicity of lurasidone by Other (see comment). Contraindicated. Comment: Interaction applies only in setting of acute lurasidone overdose. Epinephrine may enhance hypotensive effects of lurasidone in overdose setting.

• epinephrine
epinephrine increases toxicity of lurasidone by pharmacodynamic synergism. Contraindicated. Interaction applies only in setting of acute lurasidone overdose. Epinephrine may enhance hypotensive effects of lurasidone in overdose setting.

• eslicarbazepine acetate
eslicarbazepine acetate will decrease the level or effect of lurasidone by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated.

• fosamprenavir
fosamprenavir increases levels of lurasidone by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated. Coadministration of lurasidone and strong CYP3A4 inhibitors is contraindicated.

• fosphenytoin
fosphenytoin decreases levels of lurasidone by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated; decreases lurasidone Cmax by ~85%.

idelalisib
idelalisib will increase the level or effect of lurasidone by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated.

imatinib
imatinib increases levels of lurasidone by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated. Coadministration of lurasidone and strong CYP3A4 inhibitors is contraindicated.

• isoniazid
isoniazid will increase the level or effect of lurasidone by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated. Coadministration of lurasidone and strong CYP3A4 inhibitors is contraindicated.

• itraconazole
itraconazole will increase the level or effect of lurasidone by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated. Coadministration of lurasidone and strong CYP3A4 inhibitors is contraindicated.

ketoconazole
ketoconazole will increase the level or effect of lurasidone by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated. Coadministration of lurasidone and strong CYP3A4 inhibitors is contraindicated.

• levoketoconazole
levoketoconazole will increase the level or effect of lurasidone by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated.

• nefazodone
nefazodone increases levels of lurasidone by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated. Coadministration of lurasidone and strong CYP3A4 inhibitors is contraindicated.

• nelfinavir
nelfinavir increases levels of lurasidone by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated. Coadministration of lurasidone and strong CYP3A4 inhibitors is contraindicated.

• nevirapine
nevirapine decreases levels of lurasidone by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated.

• nicardipine
nicardipine increases levels of lurasidone by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated. Coadministration of lurasidone and strong CYP3A4 inhibitors is contraindicated.

nirmatrelvir/ritonavir
nirmatrelvir/ritonavir will increase the level or effect of lurasidone by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated. Nirmatrelvir/ritonavir is contraindicated with drugs that are highly dependent on CYP3A for clearance and for which elevated concentrations are associated with serious and/or life-threatening reactions.

• oxcarbazepine
oxcarbazepine decreases levels of lurasidone by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated.

• pentobarbital
pentobarbital decreases levels of lurasidone by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated.

• phenobarbital
phenobarbital decreases levels of lurasidone by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated.

• phenytoin
phenytoin decreases levels of lurasidone by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated.

primidone
primidone decreases levels of lurasidone by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated.

• relacorilant
relacorilant increases levels of lurasidone by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated.

• rifabutin
rifabutin decreases levels of lurasidone by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated.

• rifampin
rifampin decreases levels of lurasidone by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated. Coadministration of lurasidone with strong CYP3A4 inducers is contraindicated.

• rifapentine
rifapentine decreases levels of lurasidone by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated.

ritonavir
ritonavir will increase the level or effect of lurasidone by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated. Coadministration of lurasidone and strong CYP3A4 inhibitors is contraindicated.

St John's Wort
St John's Wort decreases levels of lurasidone by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated.

• thalidomide
lurasidone and thalidomide both increase sedation. Contraindicated.

• tipranavir
tipranavir will increase the level or effect of lurasidone by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated. Coadministration of lurasidone and strong CYP3A4 inhibitors is contraindicated.

• voriconazole
voriconazole increases levels of lurasidone by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated. Coadministration of lurasidone and strong CYP3A4 inhibitors is contraindicated.

Serious

apalutamide
apalutamide will decrease the level or effect of lurasidone by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

benzhydrocodone/acetaminophen
benzhydrocodone/acetaminophen, lurasidone. Either increases toxicity of the other by pharmacodynamic synergism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Profound sedation, respiratory depression, coma, and death may result if coadministered. Reserve concomitant prescribing of these drugs in patients for whom other treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required. Monitor closely for signs of respiratory depression and sedation.

enzalutamide
enzalutamide will decrease the level or effect of lurasidone by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated.

• grapefruit
grapefruit will increase the level or effect of lurasidone by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Avoid grapefruit and grapefruit juice when taking lurasidone.

• hydrocodone
hydrocodone, lurasidone. Either increases toxicity of the other by pharmacodynamic synergism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Profound sedation, respiratory depression, coma, and death may result if coadministered. Reserve concomitant prescribing of these drugs in patients for whom other treatment options are inadequate. Limit dosages and durations to the minimum required. Monitor closely for signs of respiratory depression and sedation.

• iloperidone
lurasidone and iloperidone both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

ivosidenib
ivosidenib will decrease the level or effect of lurasidone by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Avoid coadministration of sensitive CYP3A4 substrates with ivosidenib or replace with alternative therapies. If coadministration is unavoidable, monitor patients for loss of therapeutic effect of these drugs.

• levodopa inhaled
lurasidone decreases effects of levodopa inhaled by pharmacodynamic antagonism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Atypical (2nd generation) antipsychotics inhibit dopamine D2 receptors in varying degrees (clozapine and quetiapine are lower risk).

• lonafarnib
lurasidone will increase the level or effect of lonafarnib by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. If coadministration of lonafarnib (a sensitive CYP3A substrate) with weak CYP3A inhibitors is unavoidable, reduce to, or continue lonafarnib at starting dose.

• lorlatinib
lorlatinib will decrease the level or effect of lurasidone by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

metoclopramide intranasal
lurasidone, metoclopramide intranasal. Either increases effects of the other by Other (see comment). Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Comment: Avoid use of metoclopramide intranasal or interacting drug, depending on importance of drug to patient. lurasidone increases toxicity of metoclopramide intranasal by pharmacodynamic synergism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Potential for additive effects, including increased frequency and severity of tardive dyskinesia, other extrapyramidal symptoms, and neuroleptic malignant syndrome.

• milsaperidone
lurasidone and milsaperidone both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

• olopatadine intranasal
lurasidone and olopatadine intranasal both increase sedation. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Coadministration increases risk of CNS depression, which can lead to additive impairment of psychomotor performance and cause daytime impairment.

• quinidine
lurasidone increases toxicity of quinidine by Other (see comment). Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Comment: Interaction applies only in setting of acute lurasidone overdose. Lurasidone may enhance QTc prolonging effects of quinidine in overdose setting.

safinamide
lurasidone decreases effects of safinamide by pharmacodynamic antagonism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Dopamine antagonists may decrease safinamide effects and exacerbate Parkinson disease symptoms.

• selinexor
selinexor, lurasidone. unspecified interaction mechanism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Patients treated with selinexor may experience neurological toxicities. Avoid taking selinexor with other medications that may cause dizziness or confusion.

• sufentanil SL
sufentanil SL, lurasidone. Either increases toxicity of the other by pharmacodynamic synergism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Coadministration may result in hypotension, profound sedation, respiratory depression, coma, and death. Reserve concomitant prescribing of these drugs in patients for whom other treatment options are inadequate. 

• tucatinib
tucatinib will increase the level or effect of lurasidone by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Avoid concomitant use of tucatinib with CYP3A substrates, where minimal concentration changes may lead to serious or life-threatening toxicities. If unavoidable, reduce CYP3A substrate dose according to product labeling.

• ziftomenib
lurasidone and ziftomenib both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Avoid coadministration of ziftomenib with other drugs known to prolong the QTc interval. If unavoidable, obtain ECGs when initiating, during concomitant use, and as clinically indicated. Interrupt ziftomenib with QTc interval > 500 ms or a change from baseline is > 60 ms.

zuranolone
lurasidone, zuranolone. Either increases effects of the other by pharmacodynamic synergism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Coadministration of zuranolone with other CNS depressants may increase impairment of psychomotor performance or CNS depressant effects. If unavoidable, consider dose reduction.

Monitor Closely 

(A significant number of moderate interactions exist mainly due to CNS depression, hypotensive effects, QTc prolongation, and altered glucose metabolism. Examples include anti-hypertensives, other antipsychotics, benzodiazepines, opioids, and antidiabetic agents. Monitor closely.)

Adverse Effects
>10%
Somnolence, dose related (15-26%)
Akathisia, dose related (6-22%)
Extrapyramidal disorder, dose related (6-22%)
Parkinsonism, dose related (6-17%)
Fasting glucose increased, dose related (10-14%)
Nausea, dose related (9-13%)
Insomnia, dose-related (7-11%)

1-10%
Dyspepsia, dose related (5-8%)
Anxiety, dose related (3-8%)
Elevated serum creatinine, dose related (1-7.2%)
Dystonia (5%)
Dizziness, dose related (4-6%)
Fatigue (4%)
Back pain, dose related (2-4%)
Restlessness (3%)
Salivary hypersecretion, dose related (1-4%)
Hypertension
Rash
Pruritus
CPK increased
Abdominal pain
Diarrhea
Blurred vision
Tachycardia

<1%
Anemia
AV block 1st degree
Angina pectoris
Bradycardia
Vertigo
Gastritis
Rhabdomyolysis
Cerebrovascular accident
Dysarthria
Dysuria
Renal failure
Amenorrhea
Dysmenorrhea
Breast enlargement
Breast pain
Galactorrhea
Erectile dysfunction
Angioedema

Postmarketing Reports
Hypersensitivity (urticaria, throat swelling, tongue swelling, and dyspnea)
Hyponatremia

Warnings
Black Box Warnings
Increased mortality in elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis
• Not indicated for dementia-related psychosis
• Elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis treated with antipsychotic drugs are at an increased risk of death; lurasidone is not approved for the treatment of patients with dementia-related psychosis; placebo-controlled trials with other atypical antipsychotics showed higher incidence of cerebrovascular adverse reactions (eg, CVA, TIA), including fatalities, compared with placebo

Suicidal thoughts and behaviors
• Antidepressants increased the risk of suicidal thoughts and behavior in children and young adults in short-term studies; closely monitor all antidepressant-treated patients for clinical worsening, and for emergence of suicidal thoughts and behaviors

Contraindications
Hypersensitivity
Coadministration with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (eg, ketoconazole, clarithromycin, ritonavir, voriconazole, mibefradil) 
Coadministration with strong CYP3A4 inducers (eg, rifampin, avasimibe, St. John's wort, phenytoin, carbamazepine) 

Cautions
Possibility of suicide attempt inherent to psychotic illness; close supervision required when therapy is initiated, dosage is changed, or drug is discontinued; the risk of suicidal thoughts and behaviors in pediatric and young adult patients extends to longer-term use (eg, >4 months) is unknown; there is substantial evidence from placebo-controlled maintenance studies in adults with MDD that antidepressants delay the recurrence of depression
Antidepressant treatment can increase the risk of developing a manic or hypomanic episode, particularly in patients with bipolar disorder
Patients with Parkinson's disease or dementia with Lewy bodies are reported to have an increased sensitivity to antipsychotic medication
Orthostatic hypotension and syncope reported, possibly due to its alpha-1receptor antagonism
Risk of neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) reported in association with administration of antipsychotic drugs, including lurasidone; clinical manifestations of NMS (eg, hyperpyrexia, muscle rigidity, altered mental status, evidence of autonomic instability); additional symptoms (eg, elevated creatine phosphokinase, myoglobinuria [rhabdomyolysis), acute renal failure); the syndrome can develop, although much less commonly, after relatively brief treatment periods at low doses or may even arise after discontinuation of treatment; if NMS is suspected, immediately discontinue therapy and provide intensive symptomatic treatment and monitoring
Exercise caution in patients with a history of seizures or with conditions that lower the seizure threshold (eg, Alzheimer's dementia); conditions that lower the seizure threshold may be more prevalent in patients ≥65 years
May cause leukopenia, neutropenia, and agranulocytosis; monitor patients with neutropenia should for fever or other signs of infection and treat promptly if symptoms occur; discontinue treatment in patients with severe neutropenia (ANC<1,000/mm³) and follow WBC until recovery
May disrupt body temperature regulation
May lead to cognitive and motor impairment; caution patients about operating hazardous machinery
Incidence of cerebrovascular effects (eg, transient ischemic attacks, stroke) may increase
Esophageal dysmotility or aspiration may occur
May increase QT interval: In trials, increase in baseline adjusted QTc intervals did not exceed mean based on individual correction method (QTcl) was 7.5 ms (120-mg dose) and 4.6 ms (600-mg dose) observed at 2-4 hours after dosing; additionally, in separate trial, QTc did not increase by >60 msec from baseline or exceed 500 msec with supratherapeutic doses (ie, 120 mg/day, 600 mg/day)

Metabolic changes with atypical antipsychotic use
• Hyperglycemia, some cases extreme and associated with ketoacidosis or hyperosmolar coma or death, reported; monitor glucose control in patients with an established diagnosis of diabetes mellitus who are started on atypical antipsychotics
• Monitor symptoms of hyperglycemia (eg, polydipsia, polyuria, polyphagia, weakness)
• In the 6-week, placebo-controlled study of pediatric patients with bipolar depression, mean change in fasting glucose was +1.6 mg/dL for lurasidone 20-80 mg/day
• Undesirable alterations in lipids observed
• Weight gain observed; clinically monitor weight

Hyperprolactinemia
• As with other drugs that antagonize dopamine D2 receptors, this drug elevates prolactin levels and the elevation persists during chronic administration
• This drug is associated with higher levels of prolactin elevation than other antipsychotic agents; hyperprolactinemia may suppress hypothalamic GnRH, resulting in reduced pituitary gonadotropin secretion; this, in turn, may inhibit reproductive function by impairing gonadal steroidogenesis in both female and male patients
• Galactorrhea, amenorrhea, gynecomastia, and impotence reported in patients receiving prolactin-elevating compounds; long-standing hyperprolactinemia when associated with hypogonadism may lead to decreased bone density in both female and male subjects
• Tissue culture experiments indicate that approximately one-third of human breast cancers are prolactin dependent in vitro, a factor of potential importance if the prescription of these drugs is contemplated in a patient with previously detected breast cancer
• An increase in pituitary gland, mammary gland, and pancreatic islet cell neoplasia (mammary adenocarcinomas, pituitary and pancreatic adenomas) was observed in the risperidone carcinogenicity studies conducted in mice and rats
• Published epidemiologic studies have shown inconsistent results when exploring the potential association between hyperprolactinemia and breast cancer

Tardive dyskinesia
• Extrapyramidal symptoms, including pseudoparkinsonism, acute dystonic reactions, akathisia, and tardive dyskinesia may occur; risk of tardive dyskinesia may increase in the elderly; risk of dystonia may increase with high doses

Pregnancy & Lactation
Pregnancy
Neonates exposed to antipsychotic drugs during 3rd trimester of pregnancy are at risk for extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) and/or withdrawal symptoms after delivery; these complications vary in severity, with some being self-limited and others requiring ICU support and prolonged hospitalization
There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in women exposed to lurasidone during pregnancy
National Pregnancy Registry for Atypical Antipsychotics at 1-866-961-2388 or visit https://womensmentalhealth.org/clinical-andresearchprograms/pregnancyregistry

Lactation
Unknown whether drug is distributed in breast milk
Lurasidone is present in rat milk
Consider development and health benefits of breastfeeding along with mother's clinical need for drug and any potential adverse effects on breastfed infant from therapy or from underlying maternal condition

Pregnancy Categories
A: Generally acceptable. Controlled studies in pregnant women show no evidence of fetal risk.
B: May be acceptable. Either animal studies show no risk but human studies not available or animal studies showed minor risks and human studies done and showed no risk.
C: Use with caution if benefits outweigh risks. Animal studies show risk and human studies not available or neither animal nor human studies done.
D: Use in LIFE-THREATENING emergencies when no safer drug available. Positive evidence of human fetal risk.
X: Do not use in pregnancy. Risks involved outweigh potential benefits. Safer alternatives exist.

Mechanism of Action
Atypical antipsychotic; precise mechanism is unknown; efficacy suggested to involve mediation of central dopamine type 2 and serotonin type 2 (5HT-2A) receptor antagonism

Pharmacokinetics
Absorption
Bioavailability: 9-19%
Peak plasma time: 1-3 hr
Mean peak plasma concentrations and AUC were ~3x and 2x when administered with food compared to levels observed under fasting conditions

Distribution
Protein bound: 99%
Vd: 6173 L

Metabolism
Metabolized by CYP3A4; biotransformation pathways are oxidative N-dealkylation, hydroxylation of norbornane ring, and S-oxidation
Metabolites: 2 active (ID-14283, ID-14326) and 2 inactive (ID-20219, ID-20220)

Elimination
Half-life: 18 hr
Clearance: 3902 mL/min
Excretion: Feces (80%), urine (9%)

Administration
Oral Administration
Take with food (at least 350 calories)
Food substantially increases absorption; increases AUC~2-fold and Cmax ~3-fold
Initial dose titration not required