This site is intended for healthcare professionals
esomeprazole (Rx, OTC)
Brand and Other Names: Nexium, Nexium 24HR
Classes: Proton Pump Inhibitors
Dosing & Uses
ADULT
Dosage Forms & Strengths
capsule, delayed-release (as magnesium)
20mg (Rx/OTC)
40mg
24.65mg (strontium salt)
49.3mg (strontium salt)
tablet delayed release (as magnesium)
20 mg
injection, powder for reconstitution
20mg/vial
40mg/vial
packets for oral suspension
10mg
20mg
40mg
GERD Without Erosive Esophagitis
20 mg PO qDay for 4 weeks; consider an additional 4 weeks of treatment if symptoms
do not resolve completely in the first 4 weeks
6/22/26, 5:30 PM
Nexium, Nexium 24HR (esomeprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/nexium-nexium-24hr-esomeprazole-341998
1/28

GERD With Erosive Esophagitis
20-40 mg PO qDay for 4-8 weeks
If oral therapy inappropriate or not possible: 20-40 mg qDay IV up to 10 days; switch to
PO once patient able to swallow
Maintenance: 20 mg PO qDay for up to 6 months
Helicobacter Pylori Eradication
Combination therapy (with amoxicillin and clarithromycin) for eradication of H pylori in
patients with duodenal ulcer
40 mg PO qDay for 10 days, PLUS
Amoxicillin 1000 mg PO q12hr for 10 days, PLUS
Clarithromycin 500 mg PO q12hr for 10 days
Risk Reduction of NSAID-Associated Gastric Ulcer
20-40 mg PO qDay for up to 6 months
NSAID-Induced Gastric Ulcer
20 mg PO qDay for 4-8 weeks
Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome
80 mg PO divided q12hr (initial); adjust regimen to efficacy; up to 240 mg PO qDay, OR
120 mg PO q12hr administered to patients
Gastric or Duodenal Ulcers Following Therapeutic Endoscopy
IV indicated for risk reduction of rebleeding of gastric or duodenal ulcers following
therapeutic endoscopy in adults
80 mg IV infused over 30 min, THEN continuous IV infusion of 8 mg/hr for total
treatment duration of 72 hr
Follow IV therapy with oral acid suppressive therapy
Frequent Heartburn
6/22/26, 5:30 PM
Nexium, Nexium 24HR (esomeprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/nexium-nexium-24hr-esomeprazole-341998
2/28

OTC: 20 mg PO qDay x14 days
Hepatic Impairment
Oral administration
Mild to moderate (Child-Pugh A/B): No dosage adjustment required
Severe (Child-Pugh C): Not to exceed 20 mg/day
GERD (IV)
Mild to moderate (Child-Pugh A/B): No dosage adjustment required
Severe (Child-Pugh C): Not to exceed 20 mg/day IV
Bleeding gastric or duodenal ulcers (IV)
No dosage adjustment required with initial 80 mg/30 min IV dose
Adjust dose for continuous IV infusion
Mild-to-moderate (Child Pugh A/B): Not to exceed 6 mg/hr
Severe (Child Pugh C): Not to exceed 4 mg/hr
Eosinophilic Esophagitis (Orphan)
Orphan designation for treatment of eosinophilic esophagitis
Orphan sponsor
Adare Pharmaceuticals, Inc; 845 Center Drive; Vandalia, Ohio 45377
PEDIATRIC
Dosage Forms & Strengths
capsule, delayed-release
20mg
40mg
tablet delayed release
20mg
injection, powder for reconstitution
20mg/vial
6/22/26, 5:30 PM
Nexium, Nexium 24HR (esomeprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/nexium-nexium-24hr-esomeprazole-341998
3/28

40mg/vial
packets for oral suspension
10mg
20mg
40mg
GERD Without Erosive Esophagitis
Oral
<1 year: Safety and efficacy not established
1-12 years: 10-20 mg PO qDay for up to 8 weeks
>12 years: 20-40 mg PO qDay for up to 8 weeks
Short-term Treatment of GERD
IV
Short-term treatment of GERD with erosive esophagitis when oral therapy is not
possible or appropriate
<1 month: Safety and efficacy not established
1 month to 1 year: 0.5 mg/kg IV qDay 
≥1 year (<55 kg): 10 mg IV qDay
≥1 year (≥55 kg): 20 mg IV qDay
GERD With Erosive Esophagitis (Healing)
<1 month: Safety and efficacy not established
1 month to 1 year
3.5 kg: 2.5 mg PO qDay for up to 6 weeks
>3.5-7.5 kg: 5 mg PO qDay for up to 6 weeks
>7.5 kg: 10 mg PO qDay for up to 6 weeks
1-12 years
<20 kg: 10 mg PO qDay for 8 weeks
≥20 kg: 10-20 mg qDay for 8 weeks
>12 years
20-40 mg PO qDay for 4-8 weeks
Maintenance: 20 mg PO qDay up to 6 months
6/22/26, 5:30 PM
Nexium, Nexium 24HR (esomeprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/nexium-nexium-24hr-esomeprazole-341998
4/28

Interactions
Interaction Checker
Enter a drug name to check for any interactions. Type a drug, OTC, or herbal  and
esomeprazole
No Interactions Found
Interactions Found
Contraindicated
Serious
Significant - Monitor Closely
Minor
All Interactions Sort By: Severity
Contraindicated (2)
nelfinavir
esomeprazole decreases levels of nelfinavir by unspecified interaction mechanism.
Contraindicated. Coadministration may lead to loss of nelfinavir virologic response
and development of resistance; mechanism may be CYP2C19 inhibition of nelfinavir
conversion to active M8 metabolite, and also PPIs decreasing gastric pH resulting in
decreased nelfinavir absorption.
rilpivirine
esomeprazole decreases levels of rilpivirine by increasing gastric pH. Applies only
to oral form of both agents. Contraindicated. Concurrent use may cause treatment
failure and/or the development of rilpivirine or NNRTI resistance owing to
decreased levels.
Serious (36)
acalabrutinib
esomeprazole decreases levels of acalabrutinib by increasing gastric pH. Applies
only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Acalabrutinib
solubility decreases with increasing gastric pH. Due to the long-lasting effect of
PPIs, separation of doses may not eliminate the interaction.
apalutamide
apalutamide will decrease the level or effect of esomeprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Coadministration of
apalutamide, a strong CYP2C19 inducer, with drugs that are CYP2C19 substrates
can result in lower exposure to these medications. Avoid or substitute another drug
for these medications when possible. Evaluate for loss of therapeutic effect if
medication must be coadministered.
apalutamide will decrease the level or effect of esomeprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
6/22/26, 5:30 PM
Nexium, Nexium 24HR (esomeprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/nexium-nexium-24hr-esomeprazole-341998
5/28

Coadministration of apalutamide, a strong CYP3A4 inducer, with drugs that are
CYP3A4 substrates can result in lower exposure to these medications. Avoid or
substitute another drug for these medications when possible. Evaluate for loss of
therapeutic effect if medication must be coadministered. Adjust dose according to
prescribing information if needed.
atazanavir
esomeprazole will decrease the level or effect of atazanavir by increasing gastric
pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
Atazanavir solubility decreases as pH increases. Substantially reduced plasma
concentrations of atazanavir are expected if PPIs are coadministered. PPI dose
should not exceed a dose comparable to omeprazole 20 mg and must be taken ~12
h before atazanavir/ritonavir in treatment naive-patients. PPIs are not recommended
in treatment-experienced taking atazanavir.
carbamazepine
carbamazepine will decrease the level or effect of esomeprazole by affecting
hepatic enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
ceritinib
esomeprazole will decrease the level or effect of ceritinib by increasing gastric pH.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
cilostazol
esomeprazole increases toxicity of cilostazol by affecting hepatic enzyme CYP2C19
metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Decrease cilostazol dose by 50%; 3,4-
dehydrocilostazol, an active metabolite, increased by 69% as a result of omeprazole
inhibition of CYP2C19.
clopidogrel
esomeprazole decreases effects of clopidogrel by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2C19 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Clopidogrel efficacy may be
reduced by drugs that inhibit CYP2C19. Inhibition of platelet aggregation by
clopidogrel is entirely due to an active metabolite. Clopidogrel is metabolized to
this active metabolite in part by CYP2C19. .
dacomitinib
esomeprazole will increase the level or effect of dacomitinib by unspecified
interaction mechanism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Concomitant use with a PPI
decreases dacomitinib concentrations, which may reduce dacomitinib efficacy. Avoid
use of PPIs with dacomitinib. As an alternative to PPIs, use locally-acting antacids
or an H2-receptor antagonist. Administer at least 6 hours before or 10 hours after
taking an H2-receptor antagonist.
dasatinib
esomeprazole will decrease the level or effect of dasatinib by increasing gastric pH.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
defactinib
esomeprazole decreases levels of defactinib by increasing gastric pH. Applies only
to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Defactinib exposure may
be decreased when coadministered with proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). If
6/22/26, 5:30 PM
Nexium, Nexium 24HR (esomeprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/nexium-nexium-24hr-esomeprazole-341998
6/28

concomitant use with PPIs cannot be avoided, separate administration by at least 2
hr.
digoxin
esomeprazole will increase the level or effect of digoxin by increasing gastric pH.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
enzalutamide
enzalutamide will decrease the level or effect of esomeprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
erlotinib
esomeprazole decreases levels of erlotinib by increasing gastric pH. Applies only to
oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Coadministration of proton
pump inhibitors and erlotinib may decrease erlotinib exposure and reduce its
efficacy. Consider alternate acid reducing agents.
fluvoxamine
fluvoxamine will increase the level or effect of esomeprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
idelalisib
idelalisib will increase the level or effect of esomeprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
Idelalisib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor; avoid coadministration with sensitive CYP3A
substrates
infigratinib (DSC)
esomeprazole will decrease the level or effect of infigratinib (DSC) by inhibition of
GI absorption. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug.
isoniazid
isoniazid will increase the level or effect of esomeprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
itraconazole
esomeprazole will decrease the level or effect of itraconazole by increasing gastric
pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
ketoconazole
esomeprazole will decrease the level or effect of ketoconazole by increasing gastric
pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
levoketoconazole
esomeprazole will decrease the level or effect of levoketoconazole by increasing
gastric pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
lonafarnib
lonafarnib will increase the level or effect of esomeprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Lonafarnib may
increase the AUC and peak concentration of CYP2C19 substrates. If
6/22/26, 5:30 PM
Nexium, Nexium 24HR (esomeprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/nexium-nexium-24hr-esomeprazole-341998
7/28

coadministration unavoidable, monitor for adverse reactions and reduce the
CYP2C19 substrate dose in accordance with its approved product labeling.
mesalamine
esomeprazole decreases effects of mesalamine by increasing gastric pH. Applies
only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Applies only to
sustained release dosage form.
neratinib
esomeprazole will decrease the level or effect of neratinib by increasing gastric pH.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
nilotinib
esomeprazole decreases levels of nilotinib by increasing gastric pH. Applies only to
oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. As an alternative to PPIs,
use H2-blockers ~10 hr before or ~2 hr after nilotinib, or use antacids ~2 hr before
or ~2 hr after nilotinib (does not apply if using ODT nilotinib).
nisoldipine
esomeprazole will increase the level or effect of nisoldipine by increasing gastric
pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
pazopanib
esomeprazole will decrease the level or effect of pazopanib by increasing gastric
pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Avoid
coadministration of pazopanib with drugs that raise gastric pH; consider short-
acting antacids in place of PPIs and H2 antagonists; separate antacid and
pazopanib dosing by several hours
pexidartinib
esomeprazole will decrease the level or effect of pexidartinib by inhibition of GI
absorption. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
Avoid coadministration of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) with pexidartinib. Use H2-
receptor antagonists or antacids if needed. When using alternatives to PPIs,
administer pexidartinib 2 hr before or after taking locally-acting antacids OR
administer pexidartinib at least 2 hr before or 10 hr after taking an H2-receptor
antagonist.
phenobarbital
phenobarbital will decrease the level or effect of esomeprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
rilzabrutinib
esomeprazole decreases levels of rilzabrutinib by increasing gastric pH. Applies
only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Coadministration
may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure, resulting in reduced efficacy.
secretin
esomeprazole, secretin. Other (see comment). Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
Comment: Concomitant use of PPIs may cause a hyperresponse in gastrin secretion
in response to stimulation testing with secretin, falsely suggesting gastrinoma. The
time it takes for serum gastrin concentrations to return to baseline following
discontinuation of PPIs is specific to the individual PPI. Temporarily stop
6/22/26, 5:30 PM
Nexium, Nexium 24HR (esomeprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/nexium-nexium-24hr-esomeprazole-341998
8/28

esomeprazole treatment at least 14 days before assessing to allow gastrin levels to
return to baseline.
sofosbuvir/velpatasvir
esomeprazole will decrease the level or effect of sofosbuvir/velpatasvir by
increasing gastric pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use
Alternate Drug. Velpatasvir solubility decreases as gastric pH increases (practically
insoluble at pH >5). Coadministration of sofosbuvir/velpatasvir with omeprazole or
other PPIs is not recommended. If considered medically necessary, give
sofosbuvir/velpatasvir with food 4 hr before omeprazole 20 mg. Use with other PPIs
has not been studied.
sotorasib
esomeprazole will decrease the level or effect of sotorasib by inhibition of GI
absorption. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. If
use with an acid-reducing agent cannot be avoided, administer sotorasib 4 hr
before or 10 hr after administration of a locally-acting antacid.
sparsentan
esomeprazole decreases effects of sparsentan by increasing gastric pH. Applies
only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Proton pump
inhibitors may decrease sparsentan exposure which may reduce efficacy of
sparsentan.
taletrectinib
esomeprazole decreases levels of taletrectinib by increasing gastric pH. Applies
only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Coadministration
may decrease taletrectinib exposure and reduce its efficacy.
tucatinib
tucatinib will increase the level or effect of esomeprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Avoid
concomitant use of tucatinib with CYP3A substrates, where minimal concentration
changes may lead to serious or life-threatening toxicities. If unavoidable, reduce
CYP3A substrate dose according to product labeling.
ziftomenib
esomeprazole decreases levels of ziftomenib by unspecified interaction mechanism.
Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Proton pump inhibitors decrease zifomenib peak
plasma concentations by 70%.
Monitor Closely (84)
amitriptyline
esomeprazole will increase the level or effect of amitriptyline by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
amphetamine
esomeprazole, amphetamine. Other (see comment). Use Caution/Monitor.
Comment: Reduced gastric acidity caused by proton pump inhibitors decreases time
to Tmax for amphetamine and dextroamphetamine. AUC was unaffected. .
6/22/26, 5:30 PM
Nexium, Nexium 24HR (esomeprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/nexium-nexium-24hr-esomeprazole-341998
9/28

ampicillin
esomeprazole will decrease the level or effect of ampicillin by increasing gastric pH.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
armodafinil
armodafinil will increase the level or effect of esomeprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
axitinib
esomeprazole will increase the level or effect of axitinib by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
belumosudil
esomeprazole will decrease the level or effect of belumosudil by increasing gastric
pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.
Increase belumosudil dosage to 200 mg PO BID when coadministered with proton
pump inhibitors.
belzutifan
belzutifan will decrease the level or effect of esomeprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. If
unable to avoid coadministration of belzutifan with sensitive CYP3A4 substrates,
consider increasing the sensitive CYP3A4 substrate dose in accordance with its
prescribing information.
bortezomib
bortezomib will increase the level or effect of esomeprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
bosentan
bosentan will decrease the level or effect of esomeprazole by increasing
metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
bosentan will decrease the level or effect of esomeprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
bosutinib
esomeprazole will decrease the level or effect of bosutinib by increasing gastric pH.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Bosutinib
displays pH dependent solubility
budesonide
esomeprazole decreases effects of budesonide by increasing gastric pH. Applies
only to oral form of both agents. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Enteric-coated
budesonide dissolves at pH >5.5. Also, dissolution of extended-release budesonide
tablets is pH dependent. Coadministration with drugs that increase gastric pH may
cause these budesonide products to prematurely dissolve, and possibly affect
release properties and absorption of the drug in the duodenum.
cannabidiol
esomeprazole will increase the level or effect of cannabidiol by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Consider reducing
the cannabidiol dose when coadministered with a moderate CYP2C19 inhibitor.
6/22/26, 5:30 PM
Nexium, Nexium 24HR (esomeprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/nexium-nexium-24hr-esomeprazole-341998
10/28

cannabidiol will increase the level or effect of esomeprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Consider reducing
the dose of sensitive CYP2C19 substrates, as clinically appropriate, when
coadministered with cannabidiol.
carbamazepine
carbamazepine will decrease the level or effect of esomeprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
carbonyl iron
esomeprazole will decrease the level or effect of carbonyl iron by increasing gastric
pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
cefpodoxime
esomeprazole will decrease the level or effect of cefpodoxime by increasing gastric
pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
cefuroxime
esomeprazole will decrease the level or effect of cefuroxime by increasing gastric
pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
cenobamate
cenobamate will decrease the level or effect of esomeprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.
Increase dose of CYP3A4 substrate, as needed, when coadministered with
cenobamate.
cenobamate will increase the level or effect of esomeprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Consider a dose
reduction of CYP2C19 substrates, as clinically appropriate, when used
concomitantly with cenobamate.
citalopram
esomeprazole will increase the level or effect of citalopram by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Citalopram 20 mg/day is the
maximum recommended dose for patients taking CYP2C19 inhibitors because of
the risk of QT prolongation.
clobazam
esomeprazole will increase the level or effect of clobazam by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Dosage adjustment may be
required; CYP2C19 inhibitors may result in increased exposure to N-
desmethylclobazam (active metabolite).
clozapine
esomeprazole will decrease the level or effect of clozapine by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP1A2 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
cobicistat
cobicistat will increase the level or effect of esomeprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
6/22/26, 5:30 PM
Nexium, Nexium 24HR (esomeprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/nexium-nexium-24hr-esomeprazole-341998
11/28

crizotinib
esomeprazole decreases levels of crizotinib by increasing gastric pH. Applies only
to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor. Drugs that elevate the gastric pH
may decrease the solubility of crizotinib and subsequently reduce its bioavailability.
However, no formal studies have been conducted. .
crofelemer
crofelemer increases levels of esomeprazole by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme
CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Crofelemer has the potential to inhibit
CYP3A4 at concentrations expected in the gut; unlikely to inhibit systemically
because minimally absorbed.
cyclosporine
cyclosporine, esomeprazole. Either increases toxicity of the other by Other (see
comment). Use Caution/Monitor. Comment: When used for prolonged periods of
time PPIs may cause hypomagnesemia and the risk is further increased when used
concomitantly with drugs that also have the same effects.
dabrafenib
esomeprazole will decrease the level or effect of dabrafenib by increasing gastric
pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor. Drugs that alter
upper GI tract pH (eg, PPIs, H2-blockers, antacids) may decrease dabrafenib
solubility and reduce its bioavailability
dabrafenib will decrease the level or effect of esomeprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Use alternative if
available
dextroamphetamine
esomeprazole, dextroamphetamine. Other (see comment). Use Caution/Monitor.
Comment: Reduced gastric acidity caused by proton pump inhibitors decreases time
to Tmax for amphetamine and dextroamphetamine. AUC was unaffected. .
diazepam buccal
esomeprazole will increase the level or effect of diazepam buccal by affecting
hepatic enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Strong or moderate
CYP2C19 inhibitors may decrease rate of diazepam elimination, thereby increasing
adverse reactions to diazepam.
diazepam intranasal
esomeprazole will increase the level or effect of diazepam intranasal by affecting
hepatic enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Strong or moderate
CYP2C19 inhibitors may decrease rate of diazepam elimination, thereby increasing
adverse reactions to diazepam.
dichlorphenamide
dichlorphenamide and esomeprazole both decrease serum potassium. Use
Caution/Monitor.
digoxin
esomeprazole increases toxicity of digoxin by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: Prolonged use of PPIs may cause hypomagnesemia and
6/22/26, 5:30 PM
Nexium, Nexium 24HR (esomeprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/nexium-nexium-24hr-esomeprazole-341998
12/28

increase risk for digoxin toxicity.
dordaviprone
dordaviprone and esomeprazole both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.
Increase the frequency of ECG and electrolyte monitoring.
duloxetine
esomeprazole will decrease the level or effect of duloxetine by increasing gastric
pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
efavirenz
efavirenz will decrease the level or effect of esomeprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
elagolix
elagolix will increase the level or effect of esomeprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Elagolix is a weak
CYP2C19 inhibitor. Caution with sensitive CYP2C19 substrates.
elagolix will decrease the level or effect of esomeprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.
Elagolix is a weak-to-moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Monitor CYP3A substrates if
coadministered. Consider increasing CYP3A substrate dose if needed.
eltrombopag
esomeprazole will decrease the level or effect of eltrombopag by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP1A2 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
escitalopram
esomeprazole will increase the level or effect of escitalopram by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
eslicarbazepine acetate
eslicarbazepine acetate will increase the level or effect of esomeprazole by
affecting hepatic enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
etravirine
esomeprazole will increase the level or effect of etravirine by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
etravirine will increase the level or effect of esomeprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
fedratinib
fedratinib will increase the level or effect of esomeprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Adjust dose
of drugs that are CYP3A4 substrates as necessary.
fedratinib will increase the level or effect of esomeprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Adjust dose of drugs that are
CYP2C19 substrates as necessary.
ferric gluconate
6/22/26, 5:30 PM
Nexium, Nexium 24HR (esomeprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/nexium-nexium-24hr-esomeprazole-341998
13/28

esomeprazole will decrease the level or effect of ferric gluconate by increasing
gastric pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
ferric maltol
esomeprazole will decrease the level or effect of ferric maltol by increasing gastric
pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
ferrous fumarate
esomeprazole will decrease the level or effect of ferrous fumarate by increasing
gastric pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
ferrous gluconate
esomeprazole will decrease the level or effect of ferrous gluconate by increasing
gastric pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
ferrous sulfate
esomeprazole will decrease the level or effect of ferrous sulfate by increasing
gastric pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
fexinidazole
fexinidazole will increase the level or effect of esomeprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
fluconazole
fluconazole will increase the level or effect of esomeprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
fosamprenavir
esomeprazole will decrease the level or effect of fosamprenavir by increasing
gastric pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
fosphenytoin
esomeprazole will increase the level or effect of fosphenytoin by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
fosphenytoin will decrease the level or effect of esomeprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
gefitinib
esomeprazole decreases levels of gefitinib by increasing gastric pH. Applies only to
oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor. Avoid coadministration of gefitinib
with PPIs if possible. If treatment with a PPI is required, separate gefitinib and PPI
doses by 12 hr.
glipizide
esomeprazole will increase the level or effect of glipizide by increasing gastric pH.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
glyburide
esomeprazole will increase the level or effect of glyburide by increasing gastric pH.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
imipramine
6/22/26, 5:30 PM
Nexium, Nexium 24HR (esomeprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/nexium-nexium-24hr-esomeprazole-341998
14/28

esomeprazole will increase the level or effect of imipramine by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
iron dextran complex
esomeprazole will decrease the level or effect of iron dextran complex by increasing
gastric pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
iron sucrose
esomeprazole will decrease the level or effect of iron sucrose by increasing gastric
pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
istradefylline
istradefylline will increase the level or effect of esomeprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Istradefylline
40 mg/day increased peak levels and AUC of CYP3A4 substrates in clinical trials.
This effect was not observed with istradefylline 20 mg/day. Consider dose reduction
of sensitive CYP3A4 substrates.
ledipasvir/sofosbuvir
esomeprazole decreases levels of ledipasvir/sofosbuvir by Other (see comment).
Use Caution/Monitor. Comment: Ledipasvir solubility decreases as pH increases;
drugs that increase gastric pH are expected to decrease levels of ledipasvir; proton-
pump inhibitor doses comparable to omeprazole <20 mg can be administered
simultaneously with ledipasvir/sofosbuvir under fasted conditions.
lenacapavir
lenacapavir will increase the level or effect of esomeprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Lencapavir (a
moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor) may increase CYP3A4 substrates initiated within 9
months after last SC dose of lenacapavir, which may increase potential risk of
adverse reactions of CYP3A4 substrates.
letermovir
letermovir increases levels of esomeprazole by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme
CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
lumacaftor/ivacaftor
lumacaftor/ivacaftor, esomeprazole. affecting hepatic enzyme CYP2C19
metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. In vitro studies suggest that lumacaftor may
induce and ivacaftor may inhibit CYP2C19 substrates. .
lumacaftor/ivacaftor will decrease the level or effect of esomeprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
Lumacaftor/ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and also has the potential to
induce CYP2C19 and both induce and inhibitor P-gp.
mavacamten
esomeprazole increases levels of mavacamten by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2C19 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Modify mavacamten dose if
coadministered with weak or moderate CYP2C19 inhibitors.
methotrexate
6/22/26, 5:30 PM
Nexium, Nexium 24HR (esomeprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/nexium-nexium-24hr-esomeprazole-341998
15/28

esomeprazole increases levels of methotrexate by decreasing renal clearance. Use
Caution/Monitor. Increased risk of toxicity with higher doses.
methylphenidate
esomeprazole decreases effects of methylphenidate by enhancing GI absorption.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Since the
characteristics of methylphenidate extended release capsules (Ritalin LA) are pH
dependent, coadministration of antacids or acid suppressants could alter the
release of methylphenidate. Consider separating the administration of the antacid
and the methylphenidate extended-release capsules may be avoided.
mitapivat
mitapivat decreases levels of esomeprazole by affecting hepatic enzyme CYP2C19
metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Monitor patients for loss of therapeutic effect if
taking sensitive CYP2C19 substrates. .
mitotane
mitotane decreases levels of esomeprazole by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme
CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Mitotane is a strong inducer of
cytochrome P-4503A4; monitor when coadministered with CYP3A4 substrates for
possible dosage adjustments.
mycophenolate
esomeprazole will decrease the level or effect of mycophenolate by increasing
gastric pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor. Potential
interaction applies to mycophenolate mofetil. Enteric coated mycophenolate sodium
formulation is less sensitive to this interaction. Clinical significance unclear.
paltusotine
esomeprazole decreases levels of paltusotine by increasing gastric pH. Applies only
to oral form of both agents. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Coadministration
demonstrated a dose-dependent decrease in paltusotine exposure owing to
decreased paltusotine solubility at elevated gastric pH. May require increased
paltusotine dose. Avoid coadministration if patient is already taking paltusotine 60
mg.
pentobarbital
pentobarbital will decrease the level or effect of esomeprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
phenobarbital
phenobarbital will decrease the level or effect of esomeprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
phenytoin
esomeprazole will increase the level or effect of phenytoin by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
phenytoin will decrease the level or effect of esomeprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
polysaccharide iron
6/22/26, 5:30 PM
Nexium, Nexium 24HR (esomeprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/nexium-nexium-24hr-esomeprazole-341998
16/28

esomeprazole will decrease the level or effect of polysaccharide iron by increasing
gastric pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
posaconazole
esomeprazole will decrease the level or effect of posaconazole by increasing gastric
pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
posaconazole will increase the level or effect of esomeprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
primidone
primidone will decrease the level or effect of esomeprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
rifampin
rifampin will decrease the level or effect of esomeprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
rifampin will decrease the level or effect of esomeprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
riociguat
esomeprazole will decrease the level or effect of riociguat by increasing gastric pH.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
ritonavir
ritonavir will increase the level or effect of esomeprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
rose hips
esomeprazole will decrease the level or effect of rose hips by increasing gastric pH.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
sparsentan
sparsentan will decrease the level or effect of esomeprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Sparsentan (a CYP2C19
inducer) decreases exposure of CYP2C19 substrates and reduces efficacy related to
these substrates.
St John's Wort
St John's Wort will decrease the level or effect of esomeprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
St John's Wort will decrease the level or effect of esomeprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
stiripentol
stiripentol will decrease the level or effect of esomeprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Consider reducing
the dose of CYP2C19 substrates, if adverse reactions are experienced when
administered concomitantly with stiripentol.
tacrolimus
6/22/26, 5:30 PM
Nexium, Nexium 24HR (esomeprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/nexium-nexium-24hr-esomeprazole-341998
17/28

esomeprazole will increase the level or effect of tacrolimus by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Concomitant administration
may increase tacrolimus whole blood concentrations, particularly in intermediate or
poor metabolizers of CYP2C19
taletrectinib
taletrectinib and esomeprazole both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.
Concomitant use may increase the risk of QTc interval prolongation. If concomitant
use is unavoidable, adjust the frequency of ECG and electrolyte monitoring.
triclabendazole
triclabendazole will increase the level or effect of esomeprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. If plasma concentrations of
the CYP2C19 substrates are elevated during triclabendazole, recheck plasma
concentration of the CYP2C19 substrates after discontinuation of triclabendazole.
voriconazole
voriconazole will increase the level or effect of esomeprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
voriconazole will increase the level or effect of esomeprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
ziftomenib
esomeprazole, ziftomenib. QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor. Caution if ziftomenib
is coadministered with drugs that exacerbated risk of QT prolongation (eg,
hypokalemia, orthostatic hypotension, inhibits metabolism of ziftomenib).
Minor (46)
acetazolamide
acetazolamide will increase the level or effect of esomeprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
alosetron
esomeprazole will decrease the level or effect of alosetron by increasing
metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
alprazolam
esomeprazole increases levels of alprazolam by decreasing metabolism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.
ambrisentan
esomeprazole will increase the level or effect of ambrisentan by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
anastrozole
anastrozole will increase the level or effect of esomeprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
bismuth subsalicylate
6/22/26, 5:30 PM
Nexium, Nexium 24HR (esomeprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/nexium-nexium-24hr-esomeprazole-341998
18/28

esomeprazole increases levels of bismuth subsalicylate by enhancing GI absorption.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Minor/Significance Unknown.
blessed thistle
blessed thistle decreases effects of esomeprazole by pharmacodynamic
antagonism. Minor/Significance Unknown. Theoretical interaction.
bosentan
esomeprazole will increase the level or effect of bosentan by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C9/10 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
capecitabine
esomeprazole decreases effects of capecitabine by unknown mechanism.
Minor/Significance Unknown. Retrospective data suggest elevated gastric pH
caused by PPI use may impair capecitabine tablet dissolution and/or reduce
absorption. However, a randomized crossover study found esomeprazole did not
affect capecitabine systemic exposure.
chlordiazepoxide
esomeprazole will increase the level or effect of chlordiazepoxide by decreasing
metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
clomipramine
esomeprazole will increase the level or effect of clomipramine by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
clonazepam
esomeprazole will increase the level or effect of clonazepam by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
cyanocobalamin
esomeprazole decreases levels of cyanocobalamin by inhibition of GI absorption.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Minor/Significance Unknown.
cyclophosphamide
cyclophosphamide will increase the level or effect of esomeprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
danazol
danazol will increase the level or effect of esomeprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
darifenacin
darifenacin will decrease the level or effect of esomeprazole by Other (see
comment). Minor/Significance Unknown. Effectiveness of proton pump inhibitors
may be decreased theoretically if administered with other antisecretory agents
devil's claw
devil's claw decreases effects of esomeprazole by pharmacodynamic antagonism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.
dexamethasone
6/22/26, 5:30 PM
Nexium, Nexium 24HR (esomeprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/nexium-nexium-24hr-esomeprazole-341998
19/28

dexamethasone will decrease the level or effect of esomeprazole by increasing
metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
diazepam
esomeprazole will increase the level or effect of diazepam by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
dronedarone
dronedarone will increase the level or effect of esomeprazole by decreasing
metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
drospirenone
drospirenone will increase the level or effect of esomeprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
efavirenz
efavirenz will increase the level or effect of esomeprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
elvitegravir/cobicistat/emtricitabine/tenofovir DF
elvitegravir/cobicistat/emtricitabine/tenofovir DF, esomeprazole. affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
Based on drug interaction studies conducted with the components of Stribild, no
clinically significant drug interactions have been either observed or are expected
when coadministered with PPIs.
eslicarbazepine acetate
eslicarbazepine acetate decreases levels of esomeprazole by increasing
metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown. Monitor for GI symptoms; net increased
or decreased effect on PPI action unclear due to opposing CYP450 actions.
estazolam
esomeprazole will increase the level or effect of estazolam by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
ferric carboxymaltose
esomeprazole will decrease the level or effect of ferric carboxymaltose by
increasing gastric pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Minor/Significance
Unknown.
fluoxetine
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of esomeprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
flurazepam
esomeprazole increases levels of flurazepam by decreasing metabolism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.
fluvastatin
esomeprazole will increase the level or effect of fluvastatin by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C9/10 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
itraconazole
6/22/26, 5:30 PM
Nexium, Nexium 24HR (esomeprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/nexium-nexium-24hr-esomeprazole-341998
20/28

itraconazole will increase the level or effect of esomeprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
larotrectinib
larotrectinib will increase the level or effect of esomeprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
levoketoconazole
levoketoconazole will increase the level or effect of esomeprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
levothyroxine
esomeprazole decreases levels of levothyroxine by increasing gastric pH. Applies
only to oral form of both agents. Minor/Significance Unknown. Conflicting evidence
regarding this interaction exists.
liothyronine
esomeprazole decreases levels of liothyronine by increasing gastric pH. Applies
only to oral form of both agents. Minor/Significance Unknown. Conflicting evidence
regarding this interaction exists.
liotrix
esomeprazole decreases levels of liotrix by increasing gastric pH. Applies only to
oral form of both agents. Minor/Significance Unknown. Conflicting evidence
regarding this interaction exists.
lisdexamfetamine
esomeprazole, lisdexamfetamine. Other (see comment). Minor/Significance
Unknown. Comment: Reduced gastric acidity caused by proton pump inhibitors
decreases time to Tmax for amphetamine and dextroamphetamine. AUC was
unaffected. .
lorazepam
esomeprazole increases levels of lorazepam by decreasing metabolism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.
methamphetamine
esomeprazole decreases levels of methamphetamine by Other (see comment).
Minor/Significance Unknown. Comment: Time to maximum concentration (Tmax) of
amphetamine is decreased compared to when administered alone; monitor patients
for changes in clinical effect and adjust therapy based on clinical response.
midazolam
esomeprazole increases levels of midazolam by decreasing metabolism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.
phytoestrogens
esomeprazole decreases levels of phytoestrogens by inhibition of GI absorption.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Minor/Significance Unknown.
ponatinib
esomeprazole decreases levels of ponatinib by increasing gastric pH. Applies only
6/22/26, 5:30 PM
Nexium, Nexium 24HR (esomeprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/nexium-nexium-24hr-esomeprazole-341998
21/28

to oral form of both agents. Minor/Significance Unknown.
ribociclib
ribociclib will increase the level or effect of esomeprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
theophylline
esomeprazole increases toxicity of theophylline by Other (see comment).
Minor/Significance Unknown. Comment: Prolonged use of proton pump inhibitors
can cause hypochlorhydria, which in turn causes peristalsis in small intestine to
increase and peristalsis in the proximal colon to decrease; monitor for toxicity.
thyroid desiccated
esomeprazole decreases levels of thyroid desiccated by increasing gastric pH.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Minor/Significance Unknown. Conflicting
evidence regarding this interaction exists.
triazolam
esomeprazole increases levels of triazolam by affecting hepatic enzyme CYP2C19
metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
voriconazole
esomeprazole will increase the level or effect of voriconazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
Adverse Effects
>10%
Headache (2-11%)
1-10%
Flatulence (10%)
Indigestion (6%)
Nausea (6%)
Abdominal pain (1-6%)
Diarrhea (2-4%)
Xerostomia (3-4%)
Dizziness (2-3%)
Constipation (2-3%)
Somnolence (1-2%)
Pruritus (1%)
6/22/26, 5:30 PM
Nexium, Nexium 24HR (esomeprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/nexium-nexium-24hr-esomeprazole-341998
22/28

<1%
Blood and lymphatic system disorders: Agranulocytosis, pancytopenia
Blurred vision
GI disorders: Pancreatitis, stomatitis, microscopic colitis
Hepatobiliary disorders: Hepatic failure, hepatitis with or without jaundice
Anaphylactic reaction/shock
GI candidiasis
Hypomagnesemia
Musculoskeletal disorders: Muscular weakness, myalgia, bone fracture
Nervous system disorders: Hepatic encephalopathy, taste disturbance
Psychiatric disorders: Aggression, agitation, depression, hallucination
Interstitial nephritis
Gynecomastia
Bronchospasm
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: Alopecia, erythema multiforme, hyperhidrosis,
photosensitivity, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis (sometimes fatal
fatal)
Postmarketing Reports
Cutaneous and systemic lupus erythematosus
Cyanocobalamin (vitamin B-12) deficiency
Clostridium difficile-associated diarrhea
Fundic gland polyps
Acute tubulointerstitial nephritis
Hypocalcemia
Drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS), acute generalized
exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP)
Erectile dysfunction
Warnings
Contraindications
Hypersensitivity to esomeprazole or other proton pump inhibitors (PPIs)
6/22/26, 5:30 PM
Nexium, Nexium 24HR (esomeprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/nexium-nexium-24hr-esomeprazole-341998
23/28

Patients receiving rilpivirine- containing products
Cautions
Do not use if allergic to the drug; may cause severe skin reactions; symptoms may
include, skin reddening, blisters, rash; if allergic reaction occurs, discontinue use and seek
medical help immediately
PPIs are possibly associated with increased incidence of Clostridium difficile-associated
diarrhea (CDAD); consider diagnosis of CDAD for patients taking PPIs who have diarrhea
that does not improve
PPIs may decrease the efficacy of clopidogrel by reducing the formation of the active
metabolite
Severe hepatic impairment
Cutaneous lupus erythematosus (CLE) and systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) reported
with PPIs; avoid using for longer than medically indicated; discontinue if signs or
symptoms consistent with CLE or SLE are observed and refer patient to specialist; most
patients improve with discontinuation of PPI alone in 4-12 weeks; serological testing
(e.g. ANA) may be positive and elevated serological test results may take longer to
resolve than clinical manifestations
Severe cutaneous adverse reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS) and
toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms
(DRESS), and acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP) reported in
association with use of PPIs; discontinue therapy at first signs or symptoms of severe
cutaneous adverse reactions or other signs of hypersensitivity and consider further
evaluation
Relief of symptoms does not eliminate the possibility of a gastric malignancy; consider
additional follow-up and diagnostic testing in adult patients who have suboptimal
response or early symptomatic relapse after completing treatment with a PPI
Therapy increases risk of Salmonella, Campylobacter, and other infections
Contains enteric coated granules (acid labile); do not chew or crush; take 1 hr before
meals
Published observational studies suggest that PPI therapy may be associated with an
increased risk for osteoporosis-related fractures of the hip, wrist, or spine; particularly
with prolonged (>1 yr), high-dose therapy
Decreased gastric acidity increases serum chromogranin A (CgA) levels and may cause
false-positive diagnostic results for neuroendocrine tumors; temporarily discontinue PPIs
before assessing CgA levels
Daily long-term use (e.g., longer than 3 years) may lead to malabsorption or a deficiency
of cyanocobalamin
If patient taking a prescription drug, the patient should ask a doctor or a pharmacist
whether acid reducers can be taken concomitantly with it
Acute interstitial nephritis reported in patients taking proton pump inhibitors
6/22/26, 5:30 PM
Nexium, Nexium 24HR (esomeprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/nexium-nexium-24hr-esomeprazole-341998
24/28

May elevate and/or prolong serum concentrations of methotrexate and/or its metabolite
when administered concomitantly with PPIs, possibly leading to toxicity; consider a
temporary withdrawal of PPI therapy with high dose methotrexate administration
Stop use and inform a healthcare professional if rash or joint pain develops
PPI therapy is associated with increased risk of fundic gland polyp; risk increases with
long-term use >1 year; patient may be asymptomatic; problem usually identified
incidentally on endoscopy; use shortest duration of therapy appropriate to condition
being treated
Acute tubulointerstitial nephritis (TIN) reported in patients taking PPIs; may occur at any
point during PPI therapy; patients may present with varying signs and symptoms from
symptomatic hypersensitivity reactions to non-specific symptoms of decreased renal
function (e.g., malaise, nausea, anorexia); in reported case series, some patients were
diagnosed on biopsy and in absence of extra-renal manifestations (eg, fever, rash or
arthralgia); discontinue therapy and evaluate patients with suspected acute TIN
Hypomagnesemia and mineral metabolism
Hypomagnesemia may occur with prolonged use (ie, >1 yr; adverse effects may
result and include tetany, arrhythmias, and seizures; in 25% of cases reviewed,
magnesium supplementation alone did not improve low serum magnesium levels,
and the PPI had to be discontinued; consider monitoring magnesium levels prior to
initiation of PPI treatment and periodically
Hypomagnesemia may lead to hypocalcemia and/or hypokalemia and may
exacerbate underlying hypocalcemia in at-risk patients; in most patients, treatment
of hypomagnesemia required magnesium replacement and discontinuation of the
PPI
Consider monitoring magnesium and calcium levels prior to initiation of therapy and
periodically while on treatment in patients with a preexisting risk of hypocalcemia
(eg, hypoparathyroidism); supplement with magnesium and/or calcium as
necessary. If hypocalcemia is refractory to treatment, consider discontinuing the PPI
Pregnancy & Lactation
Pregnancy
There are no adequate and well-controlled studies in pregnant women; esomeprazole is
the S-isomer of omeprazole; available epidemiologic data fail to demonstrate an
increased risk of major congenital malformations or other adverse pregnancy outcomes
with first trimester omeprazole use; reproduction studies in rats and rabbits resulted in
dose-dependent embryo-lethality at omeprazole doses that were approximately 3.4 to
34 times an oral human dose of 40 mg (based on a body surface area for a 60 kg person)
Lactation
Esomeprazole is the S-isomer of omeprazole and limited data suggest that omeprazole
may be present in human milk; there are no clinical data on effects of esomeprazole on
breastfed infant or on milk production; developmental and health benefits of
breastfeeding should be considered along with mother’s clinical need for therapy and
6/22/26, 5:30 PM
Nexium, Nexium 24HR (esomeprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/nexium-nexium-24hr-esomeprazole-341998
25/28

any potential adverse effects on breastfed infant from treatment or from underlying
maternal condition
Pregnancy Categories
A: Generally acceptable. Controlled studies in pregnant women show no evidence of
fetal risk.
B: May be acceptable. Either animal studies show no risk but human studies not available
or animal studies showed minor risks and human studies done and showed no risk.
C: Use with caution if benefits outweigh risks. Animal studies show risk and human
studies not available or neither animal nor human studies done.
D: Use in LIFE-THREATENING emergencies when no safer drug available. Positive
evidence of human fetal risk.
X: Do not use in pregnancy. Risks involved outweigh potential benefits. Safer alternatives
exist.
NA: Information not available.
Pharmacology
Mechanism of Action
S-isomer of omeprazole; PPI; binds to H+/K+-exchanging ATPase (proton pump) in
gastric parietal cells, resulting in blockage of acid secretion
Absorption
Bioavailability: PO: 89-90%; food decreases AUC by 33-53%; take 1 hr before meal
Onset: 1-2 hr (gastric acid inhibition); within 4 wk (GERD)
Duration (multiple dose): Gastric acid inhibition; PO: 17 hr
Peak plasma time: PO: 1-1.6 hr
Distribution
Protein bound: 97%
Vd: 16 L
Metabolism
Liver; extensively metabolized by hepatic P450 enzyme; major metabolic pathway is via
CYP2C19; the rest is via CYP3A4
Metabolites: 5-hydroxyesomeprazole (inactive), esomeprazole sulfone (inactive),
desmethyl-esomeprazole (activity unknown)
Enzymes inhibited: CYP2C19
6/22/26, 5:30 PM
Nexium, Nexium 24HR (esomeprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/nexium-nexium-24hr-esomeprazole-341998
26/28

Slow metabolizers (3% of Caucasians and African-Americans) are deficient in CPY2C19
enzyme system; plasma concentration can be higher than in persons who have the
enzyme
Elimination
Half-life: 1.2-1.5 hr
Total body clearance: 9-16 L/hr
Excretion: Urine (80%); feces (20%)
Pharmacogenomics
Metabolites of esomeprazole lack antisecretory activity
The major part of esomeprazole’s metabolism is dependent on the CYP2C19 isoenzyme,
which forms the hydroxy and desmethyl metabolites
CYP2C19 isoenzyme exhibits polymorphism in the metabolism of esomeprazole, since
some 3% of Caucasians and 15-20% of Asians lack CYP2C19 and are termed poor
metabolizers
At steady state, the ratio of AUC in poor metabolizers to AUC in the rest of the
population (extensive metabolizers) is approximately 2
Administration
Oral Administration
If unable to swallow capsule whole, capsule can be opened, emptied on applesauce,
mixed, and swallowed immediately
IV Compatibilities
Solution: NS, LR, D5W
IV Preparation
IV injection
Reconstitute contents of 1 vial with 5 mL NS
Store at room temp (no refrigeration required) and administer within 12 hr
Intermittent IV infusion
Reconstitute 1 vial with 5 mL NS, LR, or D5W
Further dilute to 50 mL
Store at room temp (no refrigeration required) and administer within 12 hr if diluted
in NS or LR, and within 6 hr if diluted in D5W
6/22/26, 5:30 PM
Nexium, Nexium 24HR (esomeprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/nexium-nexium-24hr-esomeprazole-341998
27/28

Continuous IV infusion
Reconstitute two 40 mg vials with 5 mL each of 0.9% NaCl
Further dilute the 2 reconstituted vials in 100 mL 0.9% NaCl
IV Administration
IV injection
Injection: Over no less than 3 min
Intermittent IV infusion
Infuse over 10-30 min regardless of amount
Flush IV line with NS, LR, or D5W prior to and after administration
Do not administer with any other drugs
Continuous IV infusion
Administer initial 80 mg IV dose over 30 min, THEN follow with
Continuous IV infusion of 8 mg/hr for total treatment duration of 72 hr
Formulary
Adding plans allows you to compare formulary status to other drugs in the same class.
Formulary information is available for health plans only in the United States.
Medscape prescription drug monographs are based on FDA-approved labeling information, unless otherwise noted,
combined with additional data derived from primary medical literature.
6/22/26, 5:30 PM
Nexium, Nexium 24HR (esomeprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/nexium-nexium-24hr-esomeprazole-341998
28/28