This site is intended for healthcare professionals
famotidine (Rx, OTC)
Brand and Other Names: Pepcid AC, Zantac 360
Classes: Histamine H2 Antagonists
Dosing & Uses
ADULT
Dosage Forms & Strengths
solution intravenous (Rx)
10mg/mL
4mg/mL
0.4mg/mL
oral suspension (Rx)
40mg/5mL (generic)
tablet (OTC)
10mg (Pepcid AC, Zantac 360, generic)
20mg (Pepcid AC, Zantac 360, generic)
40mg (Pepcid AC, generic)
Duodenal Ulcer
Acute treatment: 20 mg PO/IV q12hr or 40 mg PO at bedtime for 8 weeks
Maintenance: 20 mg PO at bedtime
Reduction of recurrence risk: 20 mg PO qDay for 1 year or as clinically indicated
Benign Gastric Ulcer
40 mg PO at bedtime up to 8 weeks
6/22/26, 5:31 PM
Pepcid AC, Zantac 360 (famotidine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/pepcid-ac-zantac-360-famotidine-341989
1/15

Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease
Nonerosive: 20 mg q12hr; up to 6 weeks
Erosive diagnosed by endoscopy: 20-40 mg PO q12hr for up to 12 weeks
Hypersecretory Conditions
20 mg PO/IV q6hr; may increase up to 160 mg q6hr
Heartburn
10-20 mg q12 hr; may take 15-60 min before eating foods that could cause heartburn
Dosing Modifications
CrCl <50 mL/min: Give 50% of usual dose, or prolong dosing interval to q36-48hr
PEDIATRIC
Dosage Forms & Strengths
solution intravenous
10mg/mL
4mg/mL
0.4mg/mL
oral suspension
40mg/5mL (generic)
tablet
10mg (Pepcid AC, Zantac 360, generic)
20mg (Pepcid AC, Zantac 360, generic)
40mg (Pepcid AC, generic)
Peptic Ulcer
1-17 years: 0.25 mg/kg IV q12hr or 0.5 mg/kg PO at bedtime; may increase to 1 mg/kg
once daily at bedtime or 0.5 mg/kg twice daily for up to 8 weeks; not to exceed 40
6/22/26, 5:31 PM
Pepcid AC, Zantac 360 (famotidine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/pepcid-ac-zantac-360-famotidine-341989
2/15

Interactions
Interaction Checker
Enter a drug name to check for any interactions. Type a drug, OTC, or herbal  and famotidine
No Interactions Found
Interactions Found
Contraindicated
Serious
Significant - Monitor Closely
Minor
All Interactions Sort By: Severity
Contraindicated (0)
Serious (25)
atazanavir
famotidine will decrease the level or effect of atazanavir by increasing gastric pH.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Atazanavir
solubility decreases as pH increases. Substantially reduced plasma concentrations
of atazanavir are expected if H2-receptor antagonists (H2RA) are coadministered.
mg/day 
Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease
<3 months: 0.5 mg/kg PO once daily; may increase to 1 mg/kg once daily for up to 8
weeks 
3-12 months: 0.5 mg/kg PO q12hr; may increase to 1 mg/kg twice daily; for up to 8
weeks; not to exceed 40 mg/day
1-17 years with or without esophagitis and ulceration: 0.5 mg/kg twice daily; for 6-12
weeks; not to exceed 40 mg twice daily
Heartburn
<12 years: Not established
>12 years: 10-20 mg q12 hr; may take 15-60 min before eating foods that could cause
heartburn
6/22/26, 5:31 PM
Pepcid AC, Zantac 360 (famotidine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/pepcid-ac-zantac-360-famotidine-341989
3/15

For treatment-naïve patients, take atazanavir simultaneously with the H2RA or at
least 10 h afterwards. See dosage adjustment recommendations if coadministered
in treatment-experienced patients.
bosutinib
famotidine will decrease the level or effect of bosutinib by increasing gastric pH.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
dapsone
famotidine will decrease the level or effect of dapsone by increasing gastric pH.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
dasatinib
famotidine will decrease the level or effect of dasatinib by increasing gastric pH.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
defactinib
famotidine decreases levels of defactinib by increasing gastric pH. Applies only to
oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Defactinib exposure may
decrease when coadministered with gastric acid reducing agents, (eg, H2-blockers).
If concomitant use cannot be avoided, separate administration by at least 2 hr.
digoxin
famotidine will increase the level or effect of digoxin by increasing gastric pH.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
infigratinib (DSC)
famotidine will decrease the level or effect of infigratinib (DSC) by inhibition of GI
absorption. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. If
use with an acid-reducing agent cannot be avoided, administer infigratinib 2 hr
before or 10 hr after administration of a H2-antagonist.
itraconazole
famotidine will decrease the level or effect of itraconazole by increasing gastric pH.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
ketoconazole
famotidine will decrease the level or effect of ketoconazole by increasing gastric pH.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
levoketoconazole
famotidine will decrease the level or effect of levoketoconazole by increasing
gastric pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
mefloquine
mefloquine increases toxicity of famotidine by QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug. Mefloquine may enhance the QTc prolonging effect of high risk QTc
prolonging agents.
neratinib
famotidine will decrease the level or effect of neratinib by increasing gastric pH.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
6/22/26, 5:31 PM
Pepcid AC, Zantac 360 (famotidine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/pepcid-ac-zantac-360-famotidine-341989
4/15

pazopanib
famotidine will decrease the level or effect of pazopanib by increasing gastric pH.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Avoid
coadministration of pazopanib with drugs that raise gastric pH; consider short-
acting antacids in place of PPIs and H2 antagonists; separate antacid and
pazopanib dosing by several hours
pexidartinib
famotidine will increase the level or effect of pexidartinib by inhibition of GI
absorption. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
Separate pexidartinib by 2 hr before or 10 hr after taking an H2-antagonist.
pimozide
famotidine, pimozide. Either increases toxicity of the other by QTc interval. Avoid or
Use Alternate Drug.
pimozide, famotidine. Either increases toxicity of the other by QTc interval. Avoid or
Use Alternate Drug.
ponatinib
famotidine decreases levels of ponatinib by increasing gastric pH. Applies only to
oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
risedronate
famotidine will increase the level or effect of risedronate by increasing gastric pH.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Applies only
to delayed release formulation; accelerates pH-sensitive dissolution of delayed
release risedronate
secretin
famotidine, secretin. Other (see comment). Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Comment:
Concomitant use of H2-receptor antagonists may cause a hyperresponse in gastrin
secretion in response to stimulation testing with secretin, falsely suggesting
gastrinoma. Discontinue H2-receptor antagonists at least 2 days before
administering secretin to aid in the diagnosis of gastrinoma.
sotorasib
famotidine will decrease the level or effect of sotorasib by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. If use
with an acid-reducing agent cannot be avoided, administer sotorasib 4 hr before or
10 hr after administration of a locally-acting antacid.
sparsentan
famotidine decreases effects of sparsentan by increasing gastric pH. Applies only to
oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. H2-antagonists may
decrease sparsentan exposure which may reduce efficacy of sparsentan.
tafenoquine
tafenoquine will increase the level or effect of famotidine by Other (see comment).
Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Tafenoquine inhibits organic cation transporter-2
(OCT2) and multidrug and toxin extrusion (MATE) transporters in vitro. Avoid
coadministration with OCT2 or MATE substrates. If coadministration cannot be
6/22/26, 5:31 PM
Pepcid AC, Zantac 360 (famotidine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/pepcid-ac-zantac-360-famotidine-341989
5/15

avoided, monitor for substrate-related toxicities and consider dosage reduction if
needed based on product labeling of the coadministered drug.
taletrectinib
famotidine decreases levels of taletrectinib by increasing gastric pH. Applies only to
oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
trilaciclib
trilaciclib will decrease the level or effect of famotidine by Other (see comment).
Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Avoid coadministration of trilaciclib (OCT2, MATE1,
and MATE-2K inhibitor) with substrates where minimal increased concentration in
kidney or blood may lead to serious or life-threatening toxicities.
vandetanib
famotidine, vandetanib. Either increases toxicity of the other by QTc interval. Avoid
or Use Alternate Drug.
vandetanib, famotidine. Either increases toxicity of the other by QTc interval. Avoid
or Use Alternate Drug.
ziftomenib
famotidine decreases levels of ziftomenib by unspecified interaction mechanism.
Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. If unable to avoid, administer ziftomenib 2 hours
before or 10 hours after administration of an H2 receptor antagonist.
Monitor Closely (44)
acalabrutinib
famotidine decreases levels of acalabrutinib by increasing gastric pH. Applies only
to oral form of both agents. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Acalabrutinib
solubility decreases with increasing gastric pH. Administer acalabrutinib 2 hr before
an H2-receptor antagonist.
budesonide
famotidine decreases effects of budesonide by increasing gastric pH. Applies only
to oral form of both agents. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Enteric-coated
budesonide dissolves at pH >5.5. Also, dissolution of extended-release budesonide
tablets is pH dependent. Coadministration with drugs that increase gastric pH may
cause these budesonide products to prematurely dissolve, and possibly affect
release properties and absorption of the drug in the duodenum.
carbonyl iron
famotidine will decrease the level or effect of carbonyl iron by increasing gastric pH.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
cefdinir
famotidine will decrease the level or effect of cefdinir by increasing gastric pH.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
cefditoren
famotidine will decrease the level or effect of cefditoren by increasing gastric pH.
6/22/26, 5:31 PM
Pepcid AC, Zantac 360 (famotidine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/pepcid-ac-zantac-360-famotidine-341989
6/15

Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
cefpodoxime
famotidine will decrease the level or effect of cefpodoxime by increasing gastric pH.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
cefuroxime
famotidine will decrease the level or effect of cefuroxime by increasing gastric pH.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
crizotinib
famotidine decreases levels of crizotinib by increasing gastric pH. Applies only to
oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor. Drugs that elevate the gastric pH
may decrease the solubility of crizotinib and subsequently reduce its bioavailability.
However, no formal studies have been conducted. .
cyclosporine
famotidine will increase the level or effect of cyclosporine by unknown mechanism.
Use Caution/Monitor. Delayed resorption of cyclosporine has been reported when
famotidine is coadministered with cyclosporine.
dabrafenib
famotidine will decrease the level or effect of dabrafenib by increasing gastric pH.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor. Drugs that alter
upper GI tract pH (eg, PPIs, H2-blockers, antacids) may decrease dabrafenib
solubility and reduce its bioavailability
dexmethylphenidate
famotidine will increase the level or effect of dexmethylphenidate by increasing
gastric pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely. Applies only to extended release formulation
dordaviprone
dordaviprone and famotidine both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.
Increase the frequency of ECG and electrolyte monitoring.
erdafitinib
famotidine increases levels of erdafitinib by decreasing renal clearance. Modify
Therapy/Monitor Closely. Consider alternatives that are not OCT2 substrates or
consider reducing the dose of OCT2 substrates based on tolerability.
erlotinib
famotidine decreases levels of erlotinib by increasing gastric pH. Applies only to
oral form of both agents. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Separate administration
by taking erlotinib 2 hr before or 10 hr after H2 blockers. Coadministration of H2-
blockers and erlotinib may decrease erlotinib exposure and reduce its efficacy.
ferric maltol
famotidine will decrease the level or effect of ferric maltol by increasing gastric pH.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
ferrous fumarate
6/22/26, 5:31 PM
Pepcid AC, Zantac 360 (famotidine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/pepcid-ac-zantac-360-famotidine-341989
7/15

famotidine will decrease the level or effect of ferrous fumarate by increasing gastric
pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
ferrous gluconate
famotidine will decrease the level or effect of ferrous gluconate by increasing
gastric pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
ferrous sulfate
famotidine will decrease the level or effect of ferrous sulfate by increasing gastric
pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
fosamprenavir
famotidine will decrease the level or effect of fosamprenavir by increasing gastric
pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
gefitinib
famotidine decreases levels of gefitinib by increasing gastric pH. Applies only to
oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor. Separate gefitinib and H2-
antagonist doses by at least 6 hr.
glipizide
famotidine will increase the level or effect of glipizide by increasing gastric pH.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
glyburide
famotidine will increase the level or effect of glyburide by increasing gastric pH.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
iron dextran complex
famotidine will decrease the level or effect of iron dextran complex by increasing
gastric pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
iron sucrose
famotidine will decrease the level or effect of iron sucrose by increasing gastric pH.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
ledipasvir/sofosbuvir
famotidine decreases levels of ledipasvir/sofosbuvir by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: Ledipasvir solubility decreases as pH increases; drugs
that increase gastric pH are expected to decrease levels of ledipasvir; H2-receptor
antagonists may be administered simultaneously with or 12 hr apart from
ledipasvir/sofosbuvir at a dose that does not exceed doses comparable to
famotidine 40 mg BID.
mesalamine
famotidine will decrease the level or effect of mesalamine by increasing gastric pH.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.
metformin
famotidine increases levels of metformin by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: Famotidine inhibits multidrug and toxin extrusion
6/22/26, 5:31 PM
Pepcid AC, Zantac 360 (famotidine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/pepcid-ac-zantac-360-famotidine-341989
8/15

(MATE) transporter 1, possibly increasing exposure to metformin. Monitor for
metformin-related toxicities, including lactic acidosis.
methylphenidate
famotidine will increase the level or effect of methylphenidate by increasing gastric
pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.
Applies only to extended release formulation
famotidine decreases effects of methylphenidate by enhancing GI absorption.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Since the
characteristics of methylphenidate extended release capsules (Ritalin LA) are pH
dependent, coadministration of antacids or acid suppressants could alter the
release of methylphenidate. Consider separating the administration of the antacid
and the methylphenidate extended-release capsules may be avoided.
mifepristone
famotidine, mifepristone. Either increases toxicity of the other by QTc interval. Use
Caution/Monitor.
mifepristone, famotidine. Either increases toxicity of the other by QTc interval. Use
Caution/Monitor.
mycophenolate
famotidine will decrease the level or effect of mycophenolate by increasing gastric
pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
nelfinavir
famotidine will decrease the level or effect of nelfinavir by increasing gastric pH.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
nilotinib
famotidine decreases levels of nilotinib by increasing gastric pH. Applies only to
oral form of both agents. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Avoid this interaction by
administering H2 antagonists 10 hr after or 2 hr before nilotinib (ODT nilotinib
tablets not affected by PPIs, H2-blockers, or antacids).
polysaccharide iron
famotidine will decrease the level or effect of polysaccharide iron by increasing
gastric pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
posaconazole
famotidine will decrease the level or effect of posaconazole by increasing gastric
pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
pretomanid
pretomanid will increase the level or effect of famotidine by Other (see comment).
Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. In vitro studies demonstrated that pretomanid
significantly inhibits OAT3; monitor for increased adverse effects and consider
dosage reduction for OAT3 substrates.
rilpivirine
famotidine will decrease the level or effect of rilpivirine by increasing gastric pH.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.
6/22/26, 5:31 PM
Pepcid AC, Zantac 360 (famotidine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/pepcid-ac-zantac-360-famotidine-341989
9/15

Concurrent use, may cause treatment failure and/or the development of rilpivirine or
NNRTI resistance owing to decreased levels. Administer H2 antagonists at least 12
hours before or at least 4 hours after rilpivirine.
rilzabrutinib
famotidine decreases levels of rilzabrutinib by increasing gastric pH. Applies only to
oral form of both agents. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Give rilzabrutinib 2 hr
before H2 blockers. Coadministration may decrease rilzabrutinib exposure, resulting
in reduced efficacy.
rose hips
famotidine will decrease the level or effect of rose hips by increasing gastric pH.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
serdexmethylphenidate/dexmethylphenidate
famotidine will increase the level or effect of
serdexmethylphenidate/dexmethylphenidate by increasing gastric pH. Applies only
to oral form of both agents. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Applies only to
extended release formulation
sofosbuvir/velpatasvir
famotidine will decrease the level or effect of sofosbuvir/velpatasvir by increasing
gastric pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely. Velpatasvir solubility decreases as gastric pH increases (practically
insoluble at pH >5). H2 receptor antagonists may be administered simultaneously
with or 12 hr apart from sofosbuvir/velpatasvir at a dose that does not exceed
doses comparable to famotidine 40 mg BID.
taletrectinib
taletrectinib and famotidine both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.
Concomitant use may increase the risk of QTc interval prolongation. If concomitant
use is unavoidable, adjust the frequency of ECG and electrolyte monitoring.
vadadustat
vadadustat will increase the level or effect of famotidine by Other (see comment).
Use Caution/Monitor. Vadadustat may increase exposure of OAT3 substrates.
Monitor for signs of adverse effect of OAT3 substrate and reduce substrate dose in
accordance with their product labeling.
varenicline
famotidine will increase the level or effect of varenicline by decreasing renal
clearance. Use Caution/Monitor.
ziftomenib
famotidine, ziftomenib. QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor. Caution if ziftomenib is
coadministered with drugs that exacerbated risk of QT prolongation (eg,
hypokalemia, orthostatic hypotension, inhibits metabolism of ziftomenib).
Minor (9)
alendronate
6/22/26, 5:31 PM
Pepcid AC, Zantac 360 (famotidine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/pepcid-ac-zantac-360-famotidine-341989
10/15

famotidine increases levels of alendronate by unspecified interaction mechanism.
Minor/Significance Unknown. Monitor for increase in alendronate side effects.
aripiprazole
famotidine decreases levels of aripiprazole by unspecified interaction mechanism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.
axitinib
famotidine will decrease the level or effect of axitinib by increasing gastric pH.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Minor/Significance Unknown.
blessed thistle
blessed thistle decreases effects of famotidine by pharmacodynamic antagonism.
Minor/Significance Unknown. Theoretical interaction.
ceftibuten
famotidine will decrease the level or effect of ceftibuten by increasing gastric pH.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Minor/Significance Unknown.
cyanocobalamin
famotidine decreases levels of cyanocobalamin by inhibition of GI absorption.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Minor/Significance Unknown.
devil's claw
devil's claw decreases effects of famotidine by pharmacodynamic antagonism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.
isavuconazonium sulfate
isavuconazonium sulfate will increase the level or effect of famotidine by Other (see
comment). Minor/Significance Unknown. Isavuconazonium sulfate, an OCT2
inhibitor, may increase the effects or levels of OCT2 substrates.
phytoestrogens
famotidine decreases levels of phytoestrogens by inhibition of GI absorption.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Minor/Significance Unknown.
Adverse Effects
1-10%
Headache (4.7%)
Diarrhea (1.7%)
Dizziness (1.3%)
Constipation (1.2%)
Frequency Not Defined
6/22/26, 5:31 PM
Pepcid AC, Zantac 360 (famotidine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/pepcid-ac-zantac-360-famotidine-341989
11/15

Body as a whole: Fever, asthenia, fatigue
Cardiovascular: Arrhythmia, AV block, palpitation; prolonged QT interval in patients with
impaired renal function, has been reported very rarely
Gastrointestinal: Cholestatic jaundice, hepatitis, liver enzyme abnormalities, vomiting,
nausea, abdominal discomfort, anorexia, dry mouth
Hematologic: Rare cases of agranulocytosis, pancytopenia, leukopenia,
thrombocytopenia
Hypersensitivity: Anaphylaxis, angioedema, orbital or facial edema, urticaria, rash,
conjunctival injection
Musculoskeletal: Rhabdomyolysis, musculoskeletal pain including muscle cramps,
arthralgia
Nervous system/psychiatric: Grand mal seizure; psychic disturbances, which were
reversible in cases for which follow-up was obtained, including hallucinations, confusion,
agitation, depression, anxiety, decreased libido; paresthesia; insomnia; somnolence;
convulsions, in patients with impaired renal function, have been reported very rarely
Respiratory: Bronchospasm, interstitial pneumonia
Skin: Toxic epidermal necrolysis/Stevens-Johnson syndrome (very rare), alopecia, acne,
pruritus, dry skin, flushing
Special senses: Tinnitus, taste disorder
Rare cases of impotence and rare cases of gynecomastia
Warnings
Contraindications
Hypersensitivity to famotidine or other H2-receptor antagonists
Cautions
Use caution in renal impairment; dosage adjustment recommended in moderate to
severe renal impairment (CrCl <50 mL/min)
Prolonged QT interval reported rarely in patients with renal impairment whose dose or
dosing interval may not have been adjusted appropriately
Central nervous system (CNS) adverse effects, including confusion, delirium,
hallucinations, disorientation, agitation, seizures, and lethargy, reported with moderate-
to-severe renal impairment; since famotidine blood levels are higher in patients with
renal impairment than in patients with normal renal function, dosage adjustments are
recommended in patients with renal impairment
Relief of symptoms does not eliminate the presence of gastric malignancy; consider
evaluation for gastric malignancy in adult patients who have a suboptimal response or
an early symptomatic relapse after completing treatment
6/22/26, 5:31 PM
Pepcid AC, Zantac 360 (famotidine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/pepcid-ac-zantac-360-famotidine-341989
12/15

State of confusion reported with use; risk increased in >50 years of age and/or
renal/hepatic impairment
Prolonged treatment (>2 years) may lead to vitamin B12 malabsorption, which can
result in vitamin B12 deficiency; magnitude of deficiency is dose related; occurs most
frequently in females and those younger then 30 years
Patients should not use OTC if difficulty swallowing, vomiting blood, have bloody or
black stools
If patient taking a prescription drug, the patient should ask a doctor or a pharmacist
whether acid reducers can be taken concomitantly with it
Patients with kidney disease should ask doctor before use
Drug interaction overview
Treatment can reduce absorption of other drugs, due to effect on reducing
intragastric acidity, leading to loss of efficacy of the concomitant drug; concomitant
administration with dasatinib, delavirdine mesylate, cefditoren, and fosamprenavir
not recommended
See prescribing information for other drugs dependent on gastric pH for absorption
for administration instructions, including atazanavir, erlotinib, ketoconazole,
itraconazole, ledipasvir/sofosbuvir, nilotinib, and rilpivirine
Although not studied clinically, drug is considered a weak CYP1A2 inhibitor and
may lead to substantial increases in blood concentrations of tizanidine, a CYP1A2
substrate; avoid concomitant use; if concomitant use necessary, monitor for
hypotension, bradycardia or excessive drowsiness; refer to full prescribing
information for tizanidine
Pregnancy & Lactation
Pregnancy
Available data in pregnant women are insufficient to establish a drug-associated risk of
major birth defects, miscarriage or adverse maternal or fetal outcomes
Animal data
Animal reproduction studies have shown no adverse development effects at doses
up to approximately 243 times, the recommended human dose of 80 mg per day for
treatment of erosive esophagitis
Lactation
There are limited data available on presence in human breast milk; there were no effects
on breastfed infant; there are no data on famotidine effects on milk production; drug
reported present in milk of lactating rats; developmental and health benefits of
breastfeeding should be considered along with mother’s clinical need for famotidine and
any potential adverse effects on breastfed child or from underlying maternal condition
6/22/26, 5:31 PM
Pepcid AC, Zantac 360 (famotidine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/pepcid-ac-zantac-360-famotidine-341989
13/15

Pregnancy Categories
A: Generally acceptable. Controlled studies in pregnant women show no evidence of
fetal risk.
B: May be acceptable. Either animal studies show no risk but human studies not available
or animal studies showed minor risks and human studies done and showed no risk.
C: Use with caution if benefits outweigh risks. Animal studies show risk and human
studies not available or neither animal nor human studies done.
D: Use in LIFE-THREATENING emergencies when no safer drug available. Positive
evidence of human fetal risk.
X: Do not use in pregnancy. Risks involved outweigh potential benefits. Safer alternatives
exist.
NA: Information not available.
Pharmacology
Mechanism of Action
Blocks H2 receptors of gastric parietal cells, leading to inhibition of gastric secretions
Absorption
Bioavailability: 40-45% (PO; minimal 1st-pass metabolism)
Onset: <1 hr (PO); <30 min (IV)
Duration: 10-12 hr
Peak plasma time: IV, 20 min; PO, 1-4 hr
Distribution
Protein bound: 15-20%
Vd: 1.1-1.4 L/kg (Adults); 1.5-2.07 L/kg (children); 1.4-1.8 L/kg (infants <3 months); 2.3
L/kg (infants 3-12 months)
Metabolism
Metabolized in liver
Metabolites: Famotidine S-oxide (inactive)
Elimination
Half-life: 2.5-4 hr (adults; increases with renal impairment; eg, 20 hr with CrCl <10
mL/min); 3-4 hr (children); 4.5 hr (infants 3-12 months); 8-10.5 hr (infants < 3 months)
Dialyzable: No
Renal clearance: 250-450 mL/min
6/22/26, 5:31 PM
Pepcid AC, Zantac 360 (famotidine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/pepcid-ac-zantac-360-famotidine-341989
14/15

Total body clearance: 381-483 mL/min
Excretion: Urine (25-30% as unchanged drug when administered PO; 70% when
adminsitered IV)
Administration
IV Incompatibilities
Additive: Piperacillin-tazobactam
Y-site: Cefepime, piperacillin-tazobactam, amphotericin B, azithromycin, furosemide (at 2
mg/mL famotidine; compatible at 0.2 mg/mL)
IV Compatibilities
Additive: Aztreonam, ceftazidime, dobutamine, dopamine, furosemide, gentamicin,
imipenem, thiamine
Y-site: Atropine, cefazolin, furosemide, gentamicin, heparin, norepinephrine, thiamine
IV Preparation
Dilute 20 mg to total of 5 or 10 mL with NS, D5W, or LR
Also available in premixed bag containing 20 mg in 50 mL NS
IV Administration
Infuse at rate no faster than 10 mg/min
Storage
Premixed: Store at room temperature
Unmixed: Store in refrigerator at 2-8°C (36-46°F)
Formulary
Adding plans allows you to compare formulary status to other drugs in the same class.
Formulary information is available for health plans only in the United States.
Medscape prescription drug monographs are based on FDA-approved labeling information, unless otherwise noted,
combined with additional data derived from primary medical literature.
6/22/26, 5:31 PM
Pepcid AC, Zantac 360 (famotidine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/pepcid-ac-zantac-360-famotidine-341989
15/15