This site is intended for healthcare professionals
lansoprazole (Rx, OTC)
Brand and Other Names: Prevacid, Prevacid Solu Tab, Prevacid 24HR
Classes: Proton Pump Inhibitors
Dosing & Uses
ADULT
Dosage Forms & Strengths
capsule delayed release
15mg
30mg
tablet, oral-disintegrating
15mg
30mg
Duodenal Ulcer
Active: 15 mg PO qDay for 4 weeks
Maintenance: 15 mg PO qDay
Gastric Ulcer
30 mg PO qDay for 8 weeks
6/22/26, 5:32 PM
Prevacid, Prevacid Solu Tab (lansoprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prevacid-solu-tab-lansoprazole-341991
1/27

NSAID-associated GU
Treatment: 30 mg PO qDay for 8 weeks
Prevention: 15 mg PO qDay for 12 weeks
Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease
15 mg PO qDay for 8 weeks
Erosive Esophagitis
30 mg PO qDay for 8-16 weeks
Maintenance: 15 mg PO qDay
Hypersecretory Condition (eg, Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome)
60 mg PO qDay initially; up to 180 mg q12hr used
If dose >120 mg/day PO, administer in divided doses q12hr
Helicobacter Pylori Infection
Triple therapy: Lansoprazole 30 mg + amoxicillin 1 g + clarithromycin 500 mg PO q12hr
for 10-14 days
Dual therapy (clarithromycin resistant): Lansoprazole 30 mg + amoxicillin 1 g PO q8hr
for 14 days
Penicillin allergy: Lansoprazole 30 mg + clarithromycin 500 mg + metronidazole 500 mg
q12hr for 10-14 days
Heartburn
OTC product: 15 mg PO qDay for 14 days; may repeat q4Months
Dosage Modifications
Hepatic impairment
Mild (Child-Pugh Class A) or moderate (Child-Pugh Class B) hepatic impairment:
No dosage adjustment necessary
Severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class C): 15 mg PO qDay
PEDIATRIC
Dosage Forms & Strengths
6/22/26, 5:32 PM
Prevacid, Prevacid Solu Tab (lansoprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prevacid-solu-tab-lansoprazole-341991
2/27

Interactions
Interaction Checker
Enter a drug name to check for any interactions. Type a drug, OTC, or herbal  and
lansoprazole
No Interactions Found
Interactions Found
Contraindicated
Serious
Significant - Monitor Closely
capsule delayed release
15mg
30mg
tablet, oral-disintegrating
15mg
30mg
GERD, Erosive Esophagitis
<1 year
Safety and efficacy not established
1-12 years
<30 kg: 15 mg PO qDay for 8-12 weeks
>30 kg: 30 mg PO qDay for 8-12 weeks
May increase dose to 30 mg PO q12hr after >2 weeks of initial therapy if still
symptomatic
>12 years
30 mg PO qDay for up to 8 weeks
Nonerosive GERD
<12 years: Safety and efficacy not established
≥12 years: 15 mg PO qDay for up to 8 weeks
6/22/26, 5:32 PM
Prevacid, Prevacid Solu Tab (lansoprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prevacid-solu-tab-lansoprazole-341991
3/27

Minor
All Interactions Sort By: Severity
Contraindicated (2)
nelfinavir
lansoprazole decreases levels of nelfinavir by unspecified interaction mechanism.
Contraindicated. Coadministration may lead to loss of nelfinavir virologic response
and development of resistance; mechanism may be CYP2C19 inhibition of nelfinavir
conversion to active M8 metabolite, and also PPIs decreasing gastric pH resulting in
decreased nelfinavir absorption.
rilpivirine
lansoprazole decreases levels of rilpivirine by increasing gastric pH. Applies only to
oral form of both agents. Contraindicated. Concurrent use may cause treatment
failure and/or the development of rilpivirine or NNRTI resistance owing to
decreased levels.
Serious (34)
acalabrutinib
lansoprazole decreases levels of acalabrutinib by increasing gastric pH. Applies
only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Acalabrutinib
solubility decreases with increasing gastric pH. Due to the long-lasting effect of
PPIs, separation of doses may not eliminate the interaction.
apalutamide
apalutamide will decrease the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Coadministration of
apalutamide, a strong CYP2C19 inducer, with drugs that are CYP2C19 substrates
can result in lower exposure to these medications. Avoid or substitute another drug
for these medications when possible. Evaluate for loss of therapeutic effect if
medication must be coadministered.
apalutamide will decrease the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
Coadministration of apalutamide, a strong CYP3A4 inducer, with drugs that are
CYP3A4 substrates can result in lower exposure to these medications. Avoid or
substitute another drug for these medications when possible. Evaluate for loss of
therapeutic effect if medication must be coadministered. Adjust dose according to
prescribing information if needed.
atazanavir
lansoprazole will decrease the level or effect of atazanavir by increasing gastric pH.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Atazanavir
solubility decreases as pH increases. Substantially reduced plasma concentrations
of atazanavir are expected if PPIs are coadministered. PPI dose should not exceed a
dose comparable to omeprazole 20 mg and must be taken ~12 h before
atazanavir/ritonavir in treatment naive-patients. PPIs are not recommended in
treatment-experienced taking atazanavir.
dacomitinib
6/22/26, 5:32 PM
Prevacid, Prevacid Solu Tab (lansoprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prevacid-solu-tab-lansoprazole-341991
4/27

lansoprazole will increase the level or effect of dacomitinib by unspecified
interaction mechanism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Concomitant use with a PPI
decreases dacomitinib concentrations, which may reduce dacomitinib efficacy. Avoid
use of PPIs with dacomitinib. As an alternative to PPIs, use locally-acting antacids
or an H2-receptor antagonist. Administer at least 6 hours before or 10 hours after
taking an H2-receptor antagonist.
dapsone
lansoprazole will decrease the level or effect of dapsone by increasing gastric pH.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
dasatinib
lansoprazole will decrease the level or effect of dasatinib by increasing gastric pH.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
defactinib
lansoprazole decreases levels of defactinib by increasing gastric pH. Applies only to
oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Defactinib exposure may be
decreased when coadministered with proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). If concomitant
use with PPIs cannot be avoided, separate administration by at least 2 hr.
digoxin
lansoprazole will increase the level or effect of digoxin by increasing gastric pH.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
enzalutamide
enzalutamide will decrease the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
erlotinib
lansoprazole decreases levels of erlotinib by increasing gastric pH. Applies only to
oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Coadministration of proton
pump inhibitors and erlotinib may decrease erlotinib exposure and reduce its
efficacy. Consider alternate acid reducing agents.
fedratinib
lansoprazole will increase the level or effect of fedratinib by Other (see comment).
Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Avoid coadministration of fedratinib (a CYP3A4 and
CYP2C19 substrate) with dual CYP3A4 and CYP2C19 inhibitor. Effect of
coadministration of a dual CYP3A4 and CYP2C19 inhibitor with fedratinib has not
been studied.
idelalisib
idelalisib will increase the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
Idelalisib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor; avoid coadministration with sensitive CYP3A
substrates
infigratinib (DSC)
lansoprazole will decrease the level or effect of infigratinib (DSC) by inhibition of GI
absorption. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
itraconazole
6/22/26, 5:32 PM
Prevacid, Prevacid Solu Tab (lansoprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prevacid-solu-tab-lansoprazole-341991
5/27

lansoprazole will decrease the level or effect of itraconazole by increasing gastric
pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
ivosidenib
ivosidenib will decrease the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Avoid
coadministration of sensitive CYP3A4 substrates with ivosidenib or replace with
alternative therapies. If coadministration is unavoidable, monitor patients for loss of
therapeutic effect of these drugs.
ketoconazole
lansoprazole will decrease the level or effect of ketoconazole by increasing gastric
pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
levoketoconazole
lansoprazole will decrease the level or effect of levoketoconazole by increasing
gastric pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
lonafarnib
lansoprazole will increase the level or effect of lonafarnib by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. If
coadministration of lonafarnib (a sensitive CYP3A substrate) with weak CYP3A
inhibitors is unavoidable, reduce to, or continue lonafarnib at starting dose. Closely
monitor for arrhythmias and events (eg, syncope, heart palpitations) since
lonafarnib effect on QT interval is unknown.
lonafarnib will increase the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Lonafarnib may
increase the AUC and peak concentration of CYP2C19 substrates. If
coadministration unavoidable, monitor for adverse reactions and reduce the
CYP2C19 substrate dose in accordance with its approved product labeling.
mesalamine
lansoprazole decreases effects of mesalamine by increasing gastric pH. Applies
only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Applies only to
sustained release dosage form.
neratinib
lansoprazole will decrease the level or effect of neratinib by increasing gastric pH.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
nilotinib
lansoprazole decreases levels of nilotinib by increasing gastric pH. Applies only to
oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. As an alternative to PPIs,
use H2-blockers ~10 hr before or ~2 hr after nilotinib, or use antacids ~2 hr before
or ~2 hr after nilotinib (does not apply if using ODT nilotinib).
nisoldipine
lansoprazole will increase the level or effect of nisoldipine by increasing gastric pH.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
pazopanib
6/22/26, 5:32 PM
Prevacid, Prevacid Solu Tab (lansoprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prevacid-solu-tab-lansoprazole-341991
6/27

lansoprazole will decrease the level or effect of pazopanib by increasing gastric pH.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Avoid
coadministration of pazopanib with drugs that raise gastric pH; consider short-
acting antacids in place of PPIs and H2 antagonists; separate antacid and
pazopanib dosing by several hours
pexidartinib
lansoprazole will decrease the level or effect of pexidartinib by inhibition of GI
absorption. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
Avoid coadministration of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) with pexidartinib. Use H2-
receptor antagonists or antacids if needed. When using alternatives to PPIs,
administer pexidartinib 2 hr before or after taking locally-acting antacids OR
administer pexidartinib at least 2 hr before or 10 hr after taking an H2-receptor
antagonist.
phenytoin
phenytoin will decrease the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
Consider alternative for one of the interacting drugs
phenytoin will decrease the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Consider alternative
for one of the interacting drugs
rifampin
rifampin will decrease the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
rilzabrutinib
lansoprazole decreases levels of rilzabrutinib by increasing gastric pH. Applies only
to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Coadministration may
decrease rilzabrutinib exposure, resulting in reduced efficacy.
secretin
lansoprazole, secretin. Other (see comment). Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
Comment: Concomitant use of PPIs may cause a hyperresponse in gastrin secretion
in response to stimulation testing with secretin, falsely suggesting gastrinoma. The
time it takes for serum gastrin concentrations to return to baseline following
discontinuation of PPIs is specific to the individual PPI. Temporarily stop
lansoprazole treatment at least 30 days before assessing to allow gastrin levels to
return to baseline.
sofosbuvir/velpatasvir
lansoprazole will decrease the level or effect of sofosbuvir/velpatasvir by increasing
gastric pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
Velpatasvir solubility decreases as gastric pH increases (practically insoluble at pH
>5). Coadministration of sofosbuvir/velpatasvir with omeprazole or other PPIs is not
recommended. If considered medically necessary, give sofosbuvir/velpatasvir with
food 4 hr before omeprazole 20 mg. Use with other PPIs has not been studied.
sotorasib
lansoprazole will decrease the level or effect of sotorasib by inhibition of GI
absorption. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. If
6/22/26, 5:32 PM
Prevacid, Prevacid Solu Tab (lansoprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prevacid-solu-tab-lansoprazole-341991
7/27

use with an acid-reducing agent cannot be avoided, administer sotorasib 4 hr
before or 10 hr after administration of a locally-acting antacid.
sparsentan
lansoprazole decreases effects of sparsentan by increasing gastric pH. Applies only
to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Proton pump inhibitors
may decrease sparsentan exposure which may reduce efficacy of sparsentan.
taletrectinib
lansoprazole decreases levels of taletrectinib by increasing gastric pH. Applies only
to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Coadministration may
decrease taletrectinib exposure and reduce its efficacy.
tucatinib
tucatinib will increase the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Avoid
concomitant use of tucatinib with CYP3A substrates, where minimal concentration
changes may lead to serious or life-threatening toxicities. If unavoidable, reduce
CYP3A substrate dose according to product labeling.
ziftomenib
lansoprazole decreases levels of ziftomenib by unspecified interaction mechanism.
Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Proton pump inhibitors decrease zifomenib peak
plasma concentations by 70%.
Monitor Closely (78)
amphetamine
lansoprazole, amphetamine. Other (see comment). Use Caution/Monitor. Comment:
Reduced gastric acidity caused by proton pump inhibitors decreases time to Tmax
for amphetamine and dextroamphetamine. AUC was unaffected. .
ampicillin
lansoprazole will decrease the level or effect of ampicillin by increasing gastric pH.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
avapritinib
lansoprazole will increase the level or effect of avapritinib by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
axitinib
lansoprazole increases levels of axitinib by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme
CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
belumosudil
lansoprazole will decrease the level or effect of belumosudil by increasing gastric
pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.
Increase belumosudil dosage to 200 mg PO BID when coadministered with proton
pump inhibitors.
bosutinib
6/22/26, 5:32 PM
Prevacid, Prevacid Solu Tab (lansoprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prevacid-solu-tab-lansoprazole-341991
8/27

lansoprazole decreases levels of bosutinib by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: PPIs may decrease bosutinib concentration by ~45%;
bosutinib displays pH-dependent solubility.
budesonide
lansoprazole decreases effects of budesonide by increasing gastric pH. Applies only
to oral form of both agents. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Enteric-coated
budesonide dissolves at pH >5.5. Also, dissolution of extended-release budesonide
tablets is pH dependent. Coadministration with drugs that increase gastric pH may
cause these budesonide products to prematurely dissolve, and possibly affect
release properties and absorption of the drug in the duodenum.
cannabidiol
lansoprazole will increase the level or effect of cannabidiol by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Consider reducing
the cannabidiol dose when coadministered with a moderate CYP2C19 inhibitor.
cannabidiol will increase the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Consider reducing
the dose of sensitive CYP2C19 substrates, as clinically appropriate, when
coadministered with cannabidiol.
capecitabine
lansoprazole decreases effects of capecitabine by unknown mechanism. Use
Caution/Monitor. Retrospective data suggest elevated gastric pH caused by PPI use
may impair capecitabine tablet dissolution and/or reduce absorption.
carbamazepine
carbamazepine will decrease the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
carbamazepine will decrease the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
carbonyl iron
lansoprazole will decrease the level or effect of carbonyl iron by increasing gastric
pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
cenobamate
cenobamate will decrease the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.
Increase dose of CYP3A4 substrate, as needed, when coadministered with
cenobamate.
cenobamate will increase the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Consider a dose
reduction of CYP2C19 substrates, as clinically appropriate, when used
concomitantly with cenobamate.
clarithromycin
clarithromycin will increase the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
6/22/26, 5:32 PM
Prevacid, Prevacid Solu Tab (lansoprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prevacid-solu-tab-lansoprazole-341991
9/27

clobazam
lansoprazole will increase the level or effect of clobazam by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Dosage adjustment may be
required; CYP2C19 inhibitors may result in increased exposure to N-
desmethylclobazam (active metabolite).
clopidogrel
lansoprazole decreases effects of clopidogrel by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Mean AUC of clopidogrel active
metabolite was reduced by ~14% when lansoprazole was coadministered
compared to administration of clopidogrel alone in healthy subjects who were
CYP2C19 extensive metabolizers. Clopidogrel efficacy may be reduced by drugs
that inhibit CYP2C19. Inhibition of platelet aggregation by clopidogrel is entirely
due to the active clopidogrel metabolite. Clopidogrel is metabolized in part by
CYP2C19.
cobicistat
cobicistat will increase the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
conivaptan
conivaptan will increase the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
crizotinib
lansoprazole decreases levels of crizotinib by increasing gastric pH. Applies only to
oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor. Drugs that elevate the gastric pH
may decrease the solubility of crizotinib and subsequently reduce its bioavailability.
However, no formal studies have been conducted. .
dabrafenib
lansoprazole will decrease the level or effect of dabrafenib by increasing gastric pH.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor. Drugs that alter
upper GI tract pH (eg, PPIs, H2-blockers, antacids) may decrease dabrafenib
solubility and reduce its bioavailability
dabrafenib will decrease the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.
dextroamphetamine
lansoprazole, dextroamphetamine. Other (see comment). Use Caution/Monitor.
Comment: Reduced gastric acidity caused by proton pump inhibitors decreases time
to Tmax for amphetamine and dextroamphetamine. AUC was unaffected. .
diazepam buccal
lansoprazole will increase the level or effect of diazepam buccal by affecting
hepatic enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Strong or moderate
CYP2C19 inhibitors may decrease rate of diazepam elimination, thereby increasing
adverse reactions to diazepam.
diazepam intranasal
lansoprazole will increase the level or effect of diazepam intranasal by affecting
hepatic enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Strong or moderate
6/22/26, 5:32 PM
Prevacid, Prevacid Solu Tab (lansoprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prevacid-solu-tab-lansoprazole-341991
10/27

CYP2C19 inhibitors may decrease rate of diazepam elimination, thereby increasing
adverse reactions to diazepam.
digoxin
lansoprazole increases toxicity of digoxin by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: Prolonged use of PPIs may cause hypomagnesemia and
increase risk for digoxin toxicity.
dordaviprone
dordaviprone and lansoprazole both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.
Increase the frequency of ECG and electrolyte monitoring.
efavirenz
efavirenz will decrease the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
elagolix
elagolix will increase the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2C19 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Elagolix is a weak
CYP2C19 inhibitor. Caution with sensitive CYP2C19 substrates.
elagolix decreases levels of lansoprazole by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme
CYP3A4 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Elagolix is a weak-to-
moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Monitor CYP3A substrates if coadministered. Consider
increasing CYP3A substrate dose if needed.
encorafenib
encorafenib, lansoprazole. affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism.
Use Caution/Monitor. Encorafenib both inhibits and induces CYP3A4 at clinically
relevant plasma concentrations. Coadministration of encorafenib with sensitive
CYP3A4 substrates may result in increased toxicity or decreased efficacy of these
agents.
eslicarbazepine acetate
eslicarbazepine acetate will increase the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting
hepatic enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
etravirine
etravirine will decrease the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
fedratinib
fedratinib will increase the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Adjust dose
of drugs that are CYP3A4 substrates as necessary.
fedratinib will increase the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Adjust dose of drugs that are
CYP2C19 substrates as necessary.
ferric gluconate
lansoprazole will decrease the level or effect of ferric gluconate by increasing
6/22/26, 5:32 PM
Prevacid, Prevacid Solu Tab (lansoprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prevacid-solu-tab-lansoprazole-341991
11/27

gastric pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
ferric maltol
lansoprazole will decrease the level or effect of ferric maltol by increasing gastric
pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
ferrous fumarate
lansoprazole will decrease the level or effect of ferrous fumarate by increasing
gastric pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
ferrous gluconate
lansoprazole will decrease the level or effect of ferrous gluconate by increasing
gastric pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
ferrous sulfate
lansoprazole will decrease the level or effect of ferrous sulfate by increasing gastric
pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
fexinidazole
fexinidazole will increase the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
finerenone
lansoprazole will increase the level or effect of finerenone by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.
Monitor serum potassium during initiation and dosage adjustment of either
finererone or weak CYP3A4 inhibitors. Adjust finererone dosage as needed.
flibanserin
lansoprazole will increase the level or effect of flibanserin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Increased
flibanserin adverse effects may occur if coadministered with multiple weak CYP3A4
inhibitors.
fluvoxamine
fluvoxamine will increase the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
fosamprenavir
lansoprazole will decrease the level or effect of fosamprenavir by increasing gastric
pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
gefitinib
lansoprazole decreases levels of gefitinib by increasing gastric pH. Applies only to
oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor. Avoid coadministration of gefitinib
with PPIs if possible. If treatment with a PPI is required, separate gefitinib and PPI
doses by 12 hr.
iron dextran complex
lansoprazole will decrease the level or effect of iron dextran complex by increasing
gastric pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
iron sucrose
6/22/26, 5:32 PM
Prevacid, Prevacid Solu Tab (lansoprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prevacid-solu-tab-lansoprazole-341991
12/27

lansoprazole will decrease the level or effect of iron sucrose by increasing gastric
pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
isavuconazonium sulfate
lansoprazole will increase the level or effect of isavuconazonium sulfate by
affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
isoniazid
isoniazid will increase the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
istradefylline
istradefylline will increase the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Istradefylline
40 mg/day increased peak levels and AUC of CYP3A4 substrates in clinical trials.
This effect was not observed with istradefylline 20 mg/day. Consider dose reduction
of sensitive CYP3A4 substrates.
itraconazole
itraconazole will increase the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.
Separate proton pump inhibitors at least 2 hr before or 2 hr after itraconazole. Use
of Sporanox oral solution (instead of the capsule) or administration of itraconazole
with an acidic beverage (eg, cola) may minimize the significance of this interaction.
Closely monitor for reduced itraconazole efficacy if combined.
ketoconazole
ketoconazole will increase the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
ledipasvir/sofosbuvir
lansoprazole decreases levels of ledipasvir/sofosbuvir by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: Ledipasvir solubility decreases as pH increases; drugs
that increase gastric pH are expected to decrease levels of ledipasvir; proton-pump
inhibitor doses comparable to omeprazole <20 mg can be administered
simultaneously with ledipasvir/sofosbuvir under fasted conditions.
lemborexant
lansoprazole will increase the level or effect of lemborexant by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.
Lower nightly dose of lemborexant recommended if coadministered with weak
CYP3A4 inhibitors. See drug monograph for specific dosage modification.
lenacapavir
lenacapavir will increase the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Lencapavir
may increase CYP3A4 substrates initiated within 9 months after last SC dose of
lenacapavir, which may increase potential risk of adverse reactions of CYP3A4
substrates.
letermovir
letermovir increases levels of lansoprazole by affecting hepatic enzyme CYP2E1
6/22/26, 5:32 PM
Prevacid, Prevacid Solu Tab (lansoprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prevacid-solu-tab-lansoprazole-341991
13/27

metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
levoketoconazole
levoketoconazole will increase the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
lorlatinib
lorlatinib will decrease the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
lumacaftor/ivacaftor
lumacaftor/ivacaftor, lansoprazole. affecting hepatic enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism.
Use Caution/Monitor. In vitro studies suggest that lumacaftor may induce and
ivacaftor may inhibit CYP2C19 substrates. .
lumacaftor/ivacaftor will decrease the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
Lumacaftor/ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and also has the potential to
induce CYP2C19 and both induce and inhibitor P-gp.
methotrexate
lansoprazole increases levels of methotrexate by decreasing renal clearance. Use
Caution/Monitor. Increased risk of toxicity with higher doses.
methylphenidate
lansoprazole decreases effects of methylphenidate by enhancing GI absorption.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Since the
characteristics of methylphenidate extended release capsules (Ritalin LA) are pH
dependent, coadministration of antacids or acid suppressants could alter the
release of methylphenidate. Consider separating the administration of the antacid
and the methylphenidate extended-release capsules may be avoided.
midazolam intranasal
lansoprazole will increase the level or effect of midazolam intranasal by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
Coadministration of mild CYP3A4 inhibitors with midazolam intranasal may cause
higher midazolam systemic exposure, which may prolong sedation.
mitapivat
mitapivat decreases levels of lansoprazole by affecting hepatic enzyme CYP2C19
metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Monitor patients for loss of therapeutic effect if
taking sensitive CYP2C19 substrates. .
mitotane
mitotane decreases levels of lansoprazole by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme
CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Mitotane is a strong inducer of
cytochrome P-4503A4; monitor when coadministered with CYP3A4 substrates for
possible dosage adjustments.
mycophenolate
lansoprazole will decrease the level or effect of mycophenolate by increasing
gastric pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor. Potential
6/22/26, 5:32 PM
Prevacid, Prevacid Solu Tab (lansoprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prevacid-solu-tab-lansoprazole-341991
14/27

interaction applies to mycophenolate mofetil. Enteric coated mycophenolate sodium
formulation is less sensitive to this interaction. Clinical significance unclear.
nefazodone
nefazodone will increase the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
paltusotine
lansoprazole decreases levels of paltusotine by increasing gastric pH. Applies only
to oral form of both agents. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Coadministration
demonstrated a dose-dependent decrease in paltusotine exposure owing to
decreased paltusotine solubility at elevated gastric pH. May require increased
paltusotine dose. Avoid coadministration if patient is already taking paltusotine 60
mg.
phenobarbital
phenobarbital will decrease the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
polysaccharide iron
lansoprazole will decrease the level or effect of polysaccharide iron by increasing
gastric pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
posaconazole
lansoprazole will decrease the level or effect of posaconazole by increasing gastric
pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
posaconazole will increase the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
primidone
primidone will decrease the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
revumenib
revumenib and lansoprazole both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor. ECG
monitoring recommended if concomitant use can?t be avoided and withhold
therapy if QTc interval is >480 msec; restart therapy after QTc interval returns to
<480 msec
rose hips
lansoprazole will decrease the level or effect of rose hips by increasing gastric pH.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
sparsentan
sparsentan will decrease the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Sparsentan (a CYP2C19
inducer) decreases exposure of CYP2C19 substrates and reduces efficacy related to
these substrates.
St John's Wort
St John's Wort will decrease the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
6/22/26, 5:32 PM
Prevacid, Prevacid Solu Tab (lansoprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prevacid-solu-tab-lansoprazole-341991
15/27

St John's Wort will decrease the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
stiripentol
stiripentol, lansoprazole. affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism.
Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Stiripentol is a CYP3A4 inhibitor and inducer.
Monitor CYP3A4 substrates coadministered with stiripentol for increased or
decreased effects. CYP3A4 substrates may require dosage adjustment.
stiripentol will increase the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Consider reducing
the dose of CYP2C19 substrates, if adverse reactions are experienced when
administered concomitantly with stiripentol.
tacrolimus
lansoprazole will increase the level or effect of tacrolimus by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Concomitant administration
may increase tacrolimus whole blood concentrations, particularly in intermediate or
poor metabolizers of CYP2C19
taletrectinib
taletrectinib and lansoprazole both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.
Concomitant use may increase the risk of QTc interval prolongation. If concomitant
use is unavoidable, adjust the frequency of ECG and electrolyte monitoring.
tecovirimat
tecovirimat will increase the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Tecovirimat is a weak inhibitor
of CYP2C8 and CYP2C19. Monitor for adverse effects if coadministered with
sensitive substrates of these enzymes.
tecovirimat will decrease the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Tecovirimat is
a weak CYP3A4 inducer. Monitor sensitive CYP3A4 substrates for effectiveness if
coadministered.
tinidazole
lansoprazole will increase the level or effect of tinidazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
triclabendazole
triclabendazole will increase the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. If plasma concentrations of
the CYP2C19 substrates are elevated during triclabendazole, recheck plasma
concentration of the CYP2C19 substrates after discontinuation of triclabendazole.
ziftomenib
lansoprazole, ziftomenib. QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor. Caution if ziftomenib is
coadministered with drugs that exacerbated risk of QT prolongation (eg,
hypokalemia, orthostatic hypotension, inhibits metabolism of ziftomenib).
6/22/26, 5:32 PM
Prevacid, Prevacid Solu Tab (lansoprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prevacid-solu-tab-lansoprazole-341991
16/27

Minor (54)
acetazolamide
acetazolamide will increase the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
anastrozole
anastrozole will increase the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
armodafinil
armodafinil will increase the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
atazanavir
atazanavir will increase the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
blessed thistle
blessed thistle decreases effects of lansoprazole by pharmacodynamic antagonism.
Minor/Significance Unknown. Theoretical interaction.
bortezomib
bortezomib will increase the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
bosentan
bosentan will decrease the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
butalbital
butalbital will decrease the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
cyanocobalamin
lansoprazole decreases levels of cyanocobalamin by inhibition of GI absorption.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Minor/Significance Unknown.
cyclophosphamide
cyclophosphamide will increase the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
danazol
danazol will increase the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
darifenacin
darifenacin decreases effects of lansoprazole by Other (see comment).
Minor/Significance Unknown. Comment: Effectiveness of proton pump inhibitors
may be decreased theoretically if administered with other antisecretory agents.
dasatinib
6/22/26, 5:32 PM
Prevacid, Prevacid Solu Tab (lansoprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prevacid-solu-tab-lansoprazole-341991
17/27

dasatinib increases levels of lansoprazole by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme
CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
devil's claw
devil's claw decreases effects of lansoprazole by pharmacodynamic antagonism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.
dexamethasone
dexamethasone will decrease the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
dronedarone
dronedarone will increase the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
drospirenone
drospirenone will increase the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
efavirenz
efavirenz will increase the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
elvitegravir/cobicistat/emtricitabine/tenofovir DF
elvitegravir/cobicistat/emtricitabine/tenofovir DF, lansoprazole. affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
Based on drug interaction studies conducted with the components of Stribild, no
clinically significant drug interactions have been either observed or are expected
when coadministered with PPIs.
erythromycin base
erythromycin base will increase the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
erythromycin ethylsuccinate
erythromycin ethylsuccinate will increase the level or effect of lansoprazole by
affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance
Unknown.
erythromycin lactobionate
erythromycin lactobionate will increase the level or effect of lansoprazole by
affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance
Unknown.
erythromycin stearate
erythromycin stearate will increase the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
etravirine
etravirine will increase the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
ferric carboxymaltose
6/22/26, 5:32 PM
Prevacid, Prevacid Solu Tab (lansoprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prevacid-solu-tab-lansoprazole-341991
18/27

lansoprazole will decrease the level or effect of ferric carboxymaltose by increasing
gastric pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Minor/Significance Unknown.
fluconazole
fluconazole will increase the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
fluconazole will increase the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
fluoxetine
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
fosphenytoin
fosphenytoin will decrease the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
larotrectinib
larotrectinib will increase the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
levothyroxine
lansoprazole decreases levels of levothyroxine by increasing gastric pH. Applies
only to oral form of both agents. Minor/Significance Unknown. Conflicting evidence
regarding this interaction exists.
liothyronine
lansoprazole decreases levels of liothyronine by increasing gastric pH. Applies only
to oral form of both agents. Minor/Significance Unknown. Conflicting evidence
regarding this interaction exists.
liotrix
lansoprazole decreases levels of liotrix by increasing gastric pH. Applies only to
oral form of both agents. Minor/Significance Unknown. Conflicting evidence
regarding this interaction exists.
lisdexamfetamine
lansoprazole, lisdexamfetamine. Other (see comment). Minor/Significance
Unknown. Comment: Reduced gastric acidity caused by proton pump inhibitors
decreases time to Tmax for amphetamine and dextroamphetamine. AUC was
unaffected. .
methamphetamine
lansoprazole decreases levels of methamphetamine by Other (see comment).
Minor/Significance Unknown. Comment: Time to maximum concentration (Tmax) of
amphetamine is decreased compared to when administered alone; monitor patients
for changes in clinical effect and adjust therapy based on clinical response.
methylprednisolone
methylprednisolone will increase the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
6/22/26, 5:32 PM
Prevacid, Prevacid Solu Tab (lansoprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prevacid-solu-tab-lansoprazole-341991
19/27

modafinil
modafinil will increase the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown. Net effect on
pantoprazole actions unknown due to opposing effects of CYP450 enzymes;
monitor
nafcillin
nafcillin will decrease the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
nelfinavir
nelfinavir will increase the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
nevirapine
nevirapine will decrease the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
oxcarbazepine
oxcarbazepine will increase the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
pentobarbital
pentobarbital will decrease the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
phenobarbital
phenobarbital will decrease the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
phytoestrogens
lansoprazole decreases levels of phytoestrogens by inhibition of GI absorption.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Minor/Significance Unknown.
ponatinib
lansoprazole decreases levels of ponatinib by increasing gastric pH. Applies only to
oral form of both agents. Minor/Significance Unknown.
primidone
primidone will decrease the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
ribociclib
ribociclib will increase the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
rifampin
rifampin will decrease the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
rifapentine
rifapentine will decrease the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting
6/22/26, 5:32 PM
Prevacid, Prevacid Solu Tab (lansoprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prevacid-solu-tab-lansoprazole-341991
20/27

hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
ritonavir
ritonavir will increase the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
ruxolitinib topical
lansoprazole will increase the level or effect of ruxolitinib topical by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
sucralfate
sucralfate decreases levels of lansoprazole by inhibition of GI absorption. Applies
only to oral form of both agents. Minor/Significance Unknown. Separate by 30
minutes.
theophylline
lansoprazole increases levels of theophylline by decreasing metabolism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.
lansoprazole increases toxicity of theophylline by Other (see comment).
Minor/Significance Unknown. Comment: Prolonged use of proton pump inhibitors
can cause hypochlorhydria, which in turn causes peristalsis in small intestine to
increase and peristalsis in the proximal colon to decrease; monitor for toxicity.
thyroid desiccated
lansoprazole decreases levels of thyroid desiccated by increasing gastric pH.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Minor/Significance Unknown. Conflicting
evidence regarding this interaction exists.
voriconazole
voriconazole will increase the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
voriconazole will increase the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
Adverse Effects
1-10%
Headache (3-7%)
Diarrhea (1-5%)
Constipation (1-5%)
Nausea (1-3%)
Abdominal pain (1-3%)
<1%
6/22/26, 5:32 PM
Prevacid, Prevacid Solu Tab (lansoprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prevacid-solu-tab-lansoprazole-341991
21/27

Anxiety
Angina
Palpitations
Syncope
Edema
Anorexia
Dry mouth
Tenesmus
Flatulence
Melena
Myalgia
Tinnitus
Allergic reaction
Postmarketing Reports
Bone fracture
Fundic gland polyps
Acute tubulointerstitial nephritis
Drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS), acute generalized
exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP)
Hypomagnesemia, hypocalcemia, hypokalemia, hyponatremia
Warnings
Contraindications
Hypersensitivity to lansoprazole or other proton pump inhibitors
Coadministration with rilpivirine-containing products
Cautions
Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) are possibly associated with increased incidence of
Clostridium difficile-associated diarrhea (CDAD); consider diagnosis of CDAD for
patients taking PPIs who have diarrhea that does not improve
Liver disease may require dosage reduction
May cause severe skin reactions; symptoms may include skin reddening, blisters, rash; if
6/22/26, 5:32 PM
Prevacid, Prevacid Solu Tab (lansoprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prevacid-solu-tab-lansoprazole-341991
22/27

allergic reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away
Cutaneous lupus erythematosus (CLE) and systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) reported
with PPIs; avoid using for longer than medically indicated; discontinue if signs or
symptoms consistent with CLE or SLE are observed and refer patient to specialist
Severe cutaneous adverse reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS) and
toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms
(DRESS), and acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP) reported in
association with use of PPIs; discontinue therapy at first signs or symptoms of severe
cutaneous adverse reactions or other signs of hypersensitivity and consider further
evaluation
Published observational studies suggest that PPI therapy may be associated with an
increased risk for osteoporosis-related fractures of the hip, wrist, or spine, particularly
with prolonged (>1 yr), high-dose therapy
Decreased gastric acidity increases serum chromogranin A (CgA) levels and may cause
false-positive diagnostic results for neuroendocrine tumors; temporarily discontinue PPIs
before assessing CgA levels
PPIs may decrease the efficacy of clopidogrel by reducing the formation of the active
metabolite
Relief of symptoms does not eliminate the possibility of a gastric malignancy
Therapy increases risk of Salmonella, Campylobacter, and other infections
Acute interstitial nephritis reported in patients taking proton pump inhibitors; discontinue
therapy if interstitial nephritis develops
Daily long-term use (e.g., longer than 3 years) may lead to malabsorption or a deficiency
of cyanocobalamin
May elevate and/or prolong serum concentrations of methotrexate and/or its metabolite
when administered concomitantly with PPIs, possibly leading to toxicity; consider a
temporary withdrawal of PPI therapy with high dose methotrexate administration
SoluTab dosage form contains phenylalanine, a component of aspartame, which can be
harmful to patients with phenylketonuria (PKU); before prescribing lansoprazole to a
patient with PKU, consider the combined daily amount of phenylalanine from all sources,
including the SoluTab dosage form
Some dosage forms contain benzyl alcohol, which has been associated with gasping
syndrome in the neonate; avoid or use dosage forms containing benzyl alcohol with
caution in neonates
PPI therapy is associated with increased risk of fundic gland polyp; risk increases with
long-term use >1 year; patient may be asymptomatic; problem usually identified
incidentally on endoscopy; use shortest duration of therapy appropriate to condition
being treated
If patient taking a prescription drug, the patient should ask a doctor or a pharmacist
whether acid reducers can be taken concomitantly with it
Acute tubulointerstitial nephritis (TIN) reported in patients taking PPIs; may occur at any
point during PPI therapy; patients may present with varying signs and symptoms from
6/22/26, 5:32 PM
Prevacid, Prevacid Solu Tab (lansoprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prevacid-solu-tab-lansoprazole-341991
23/27

symptomatic hypersensitivity reactions to non-specific symptoms of decreased renal
function (e.g., malaise, nausea, anorexia); in reported case series, some patients were
diagnosed on biopsy and in absence of extra-renal manifestations (eg, fever, rash or
arthralgia); discontinue therapy and evaluate patients with suspected acute TIN
Hypomagnesemia and mineral metabolism
Hypomagnesemia may occur with prolonged use (ie, >1 year); adverse effects may
result and include tetany, arrhythmias, and seizures; in 25% of cases reviewed,
magnesium supplementation alone did not improve low serum magnesium levels
and the PPI had to be discontinued
Hypomagnesemia may lead to hypocalcemia and/or hypokalemia and may
exacerbate underlying hypocalcemia in at-risk patients; in most patients, treatment
of hypomagnesemia required magnesium replacement and discontinuation of the
PPI
Consider monitoring magnesium and calcium levels prior to initiation of therapy and
periodically while on treatment in patients with a preexisting risk of hypocalcemia
(eg, hypoparathyroidism); supplement with magnesium and/or calcium as
necessary. If hypocalcemia is refractory to treatment, consider discontinuing the PPI
Over-the-counter use
Avoid otc use and see healthcare professional if experiencing trouble or pain
swallowing food, vomiting with blood, or bloody or black stools, heartburn with
lightheadedness, sweating or dizziness, chest pain or shoulder pain with shortness
of breath; sweating; pain spreading to arms, neck or shoulders; or lightheadedness,
frequent chest pain; these may be signs of a serious condition; see healthcare
professional
Pregnancy & Lactation
Pregnancy
Available data from published observational studies overall do not indicate an
association of adverse pregnancy outcomes with lansoprazole treatment; estimated
background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage for the indicated populations are
unknown
Available data from published observational studies failed to demonstrate an
association of adverse pregnancy-related outcomes and lansoprazole use;
methodological limitations of these observational studies cannot definitely establish or
exclude any drug-associated risk during pregnancy
Not recommended in pediatric patients <2 years; nonclinical studies in juvenile rats with
lansoprazole have demonstrated adverse effect of heart valve thickening
No adverse effects on embryo-fetal development occurred in studies performed in
pregnant rats at oral lansoprazole doses up to 150 mg/kg/day (40 times the
recommended human dose [30 mg/day] based on body surface area) administered
during organogenesis and pregnant rabbits at oral lansoprazole doses up to 0 mg/kg/day
6/22/26, 5:32 PM
Prevacid, Prevacid Solu Tab (lansoprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prevacid-solu-tab-lansoprazole-341991
24/27

(16 times the recommended human dose based on body surface area) administered
during organogenesis
Lactation
There is no information regarding presence of lansoprazole in human milk, effects on
breastfed infant, or on milk production; however, lansoprazole and its metabolites are
present in rat milk; developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be
considered along with mother’s clinical need for therapy and any potential adverse
effects on breastfed child from treatment or from underlying maternal condition
Pregnancy Categories
A: Generally acceptable. Controlled studies in pregnant women show no evidence of
fetal risk.
B: May be acceptable. Either animal studies show no risk but human studies not available
or animal studies showed minor risks and human studies done and showed no risk.
C: Use with caution if benefits outweigh risks. Animal studies show risk and human
studies not available or neither animal nor human studies done.
D: Use in LIFE-THREATENING emergencies when no safer drug available. Positive
evidence of human fetal risk.
X: Do not use in pregnancy. Risks involved outweigh potential benefits. Safer alternatives
exist.
NA: Information not available.
Pharmacology
Mechanism of Action
Proton pump inhibitor; binds to H+/K+-exchanging ATPase (proton pump) in gastric
parietal cells, resulting in suppression of basal and stimulated acid secretion
Absorption
Bioavailability: 81-91%; decreased 50-70% if given 30 min after meals
Peak plasma time: 1.7 hr; food increases time to 3.7 hr
Duration (at steady state): >24 hr (PUD, esophagitis); 40 hr (Zollinger-Ellison syndrome)
AUC: Food decreases AUC by 50%
Onset
Gastric acid suppression: 1-3 hr
PUD: 1 week (initial); 4-8 days (peak)
Esophagitis: 1-4 weeks (initial); 8 weeks (peak)
Distribution
6/22/26, 5:32 PM
Prevacid, Prevacid Solu Tab (lansoprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prevacid-solu-tab-lansoprazole-341991
25/27

Protein bound: 97-99%
Vd: 14-18 L
Metabolism
Metabolized by hepatic CYP2C19; slow metabolizers are deficient in CYP2C19 enzyme
and can have plasma concentration increase of 5-fold or higher
Gastric parietal cells: Acidic pH converts lansoprazole to its active sulfenamide
metabolites
Active metabolites: Cyclic sulfenamide and disulfide metabolite
Inactive metabolites: 5-hydroxy-lansoprazole, sulfide metabolite, omeprazole sulfone,
sulfone metabolite, hydroxysulfide metabolite, hydroxysulfone metabolite
Enzymes inhibited: CYP2C19
Elimination
Half-life: 0.9-1.5 hr
Dialyzable: No
Total renal clearance: 517 mL/min
Total body clearance: 0.7 L/hr/kg
Excretion: feces (bile), 67%; urine, 33%
Administration
Oral Administration
Administer before meals
Contains enteric coated granules (acid labile); do not chew or crush; swallow
capsule/tablet whole; do not chew, crush, or split
Do not chew orally disintegrating tablets
IV Preparation
Inject 5 mL sterile water for injection (SWI) into vial and gently dissolve to obtain a 6
mg/mL solution; can be stored at 77°F (25°C) for 1 hr
Dilute in 50 mL NS, LR, or D5W; resulting solution can be stored at 77°F (25°C) for 24 hr
(NS, LR) or 12 hr (D5W); refrigeration not necessary.
Alternatively, can be reconstituted directly into 50 mL NS, LR, or D5W using Baxter's
MINI-BAG Plus Container
Prime in-line filter as directed in manufacturer's package insert
6/22/26, 5:32 PM
Prevacid, Prevacid Solu Tab (lansoprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prevacid-solu-tab-lansoprazole-341991
26/27

IV Administration
In-line filter must be used (supplied)
Administer over 30 min
Flush IV line with NS, LR, or D5W before and after use
Do not administer with other drugs
Formulary
Adding plans allows you to compare formulary status to other drugs in the same class.
Formulary information is available for health plans only in the United States.
Medscape prescription drug monographs are based on FDA-approved labeling information, unless otherwise noted,
combined with additional data derived from primary medical literature.
6/22/26, 5:32 PM
Prevacid, Prevacid Solu Tab (lansoprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prevacid-solu-tab-lansoprazole-341991
27/27