This site is intended for healthcare professionals
omeprazole (Rx, OTC)
Brand and Other Names: Prilosec, Prilosec OTC, OmepraCare, OmepraCare DR
Classes: Proton Pump Inhibitors
Dosing & Uses
ADULT
Dosage Forms & Strengths
packet
2.5mg
10mg
tablet, delayed release
20mg (Prilosec OTC, OmepraCare)
capsule, delayed release
10mg (generic)
20mg (OmepraCare DR, generic)
40mg (generic)
oral disintegrating tablets
20mg
Duodenal Ulcer
20 mg PO qDay for 4-8 weeks
Safety and efficacy of omeprazole for maintenance treatment past 1 year not established
Helicobacter Pylori Infection
6/22/26, 5:24 PM
Prilosec (omeprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prilosec-omeprazole-341997
1/28


Various regimens exist of PPIs combined with antibiotics, an example is listed below
20 mg PO q12hr for 10 days, WITH
Amoxicillin 1000 mg PO q12hr, AND
Clarithromycin 500 mg PO q12hr for 10-14 days
Dosing considerations
This regimen is available as a prepackaged 10-day supply of omeprazole,
amoxicillin, and clarithromycin from Dava Pharms Inc, for eradication of H pylori
Gastric Ulcer
40 mg PO qDay for 4-8 weeks
GERD
20 mg PO qDay for 4 weeks
Erosive Esophagitis
20 mg PO qDay for 4-8 weeks
Maintenance: 20 mg PO qDay for up to 1 year
Hypersecretory Conditions (eg, Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome)
60 mg PO qDay (initial) up to 360 mg/day divided q8hr PO
If dose >80 mg, divide it
Dosage Modifications
Hepatic impairment: Not studied; expert analysis recommends a reduction in dose,
especially for maintenance of healing of erosive esophagitis
Renal impairment: Dose adjustments not necessary
PEDIATRIC
Dosage Forms & Strengths
packet
6/22/26, 5:24 PM
Prilosec (omeprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prilosec-omeprazole-341997
2/28


2.5mg
10mg
tablet, delayed release
20mg (Prilosec OTC, OmepraCare)
capsule, delayed release
10mg (generic)
20mg (OmepraCare DR, generic)
40mg (generic)
oral disintegrating tablets
20mg
GERD
Indicated for treatment of GERD
<1 year: Safety and efficacy not established
5-10 kg: 5 mg PO qDay
10-20 kg: 10 mg PO qDay
>20 kg: 20 mg PO qDay
Erosive Esophagitis
Indicated for treatment and to maintain healing of erosive esophagitis caused by acid-
mediated GERD
Treatment
<1 month: Safety and efficacy not established
Aged 1 month to <1 year
3 to <5 kg: 2.5 mg qDay
5 to <10 kg: 5 mg qDay
≥10 kg: 10 mg qDay
May treat for up to 6 weeks
Aged 1-16 years
5 to <10 kg: 5 mg PO qDay
10 to <20 kg: 10 mg PO qDay
≥20 kg: 20 mg PO qDay
6/22/26, 5:24 PM
Prilosec (omeprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prilosec-omeprazole-341997
3/28


Interactions
Interaction Checker
Enter a drug name to check for any interactions. Type a drug, OTC, or herbal  and
omeprazole
No Interactions Found
Interactions Found
Contraindicated
Serious
Significant - Monitor Closely
Minor
All Interactions Sort By: Severity
Contraindicated (2)
nelfinavir
omeprazole decreases levels of nelfinavir by unspecified interaction mechanism.
Contraindicated. Coadministration may lead to loss of nelfinavir virologic response
and development of resistance; mechanism may be CYP2C19 inhibition of nelfinavir
conversion to active M8 metabolite, and also PPIs decreasing gastric pH resulting in
decreased nelfinavir absorption.
rilpivirine
omeprazole decreases levels of rilpivirine by increasing gastric pH. Applies only to
oral form of both agents. Contraindicated. Concurrent use may cause treatment
failure and/or the development of rilpivirine or NNRTI resistance owing to
decreased levels.
Serious (41)
abrocitinib
May treat for 4-8 weeks
Maintenance of healing
<1 year: Safety and efficacy not established
≥1 year: Controlled trials for maintenance do not extend beyond 12 months
Neonates (Off-label)
Refractory duodenal ulcer or reflux esophagitis: 0.5-1.5 mg/kg PO qDay for up to 8
weeks 
6/22/26, 5:24 PM
Prilosec (omeprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prilosec-omeprazole-341997
4/28


omeprazole will increase the level or effect of abrocitinib by decreasing metabolism.
Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Abrocitinib is a CYP2C9 and CYP2C19 substrate.
Drugs that are moderate-to-strong inhibitors of both CYP2C9 and CYP2C19
increase systemic exposure of abrocitinib and its active metabolites, which may
increase adverse effects.
acalabrutinib
omeprazole decreases levels of acalabrutinib by increasing gastric pH. Applies only
to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Acalabrutinib solubility
decreases with increasing gastric pH. Due to the long-lasting effect of PPIs,
separation of doses may not eliminate the interaction.
apalutamide
apalutamide will decrease the level or effect of omeprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Coadministration of
apalutamide, a strong CYP2C19 inducer, with drugs that are CYP2C19 substrates
can result in lower exposure to these medications. Avoid or substitute another drug
for these medications when possible. Evaluate for loss of therapeutic effect if
medication must be coadministered.
apalutamide will decrease the level or effect of omeprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
Coadministration of apalutamide, a strong CYP3A4 inducer, with drugs that are
CYP3A4 substrates can result in lower exposure to these medications. Avoid or
substitute another drug for these medications when possible. Evaluate for loss of
therapeutic effect if medication must be coadministered. Adjust dose according to
prescribing information if needed.
atazanavir
omeprazole will decrease the level or effect of atazanavir by increasing gastric pH.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Atazanavir
solubility decreases as pH increases. Substantially reduced plasma concentrations
of atazanavir are expected if PPIs are coadministered. PPI dose should not exceed a
dose comparable to omeprazole 20 mg and must be taken ~12 h before
atazanavir/ritonavir in treatment naive-patients. PPIs are not recommended in
treatment-experienced taking atazanavir.
carbamazepine
carbamazepine will decrease the level or effect of omeprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
ceritinib
omeprazole decreases effects of ceritinib by increasing gastric pH. Applies only to
oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
cilostazol
omeprazole will increase the level or effect of cilostazol by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2C19 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
clopidogrel
omeprazole decreases effects of clopidogrel by affecting hepatic enzyme CYP2C19
metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Clopidogrel efficacy may be reduced by
drugs that inhibit CYP2C19. Inhibition of platelet aggregation by clopidogrel is
6/22/26, 5:24 PM
Prilosec (omeprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prilosec-omeprazole-341997
5/28


entirely due to an active metabolite. Clopidogrel is metabolized to this active
metabolite in part by CYP2C19. .
dacomitinib
omeprazole will increase the level or effect of dacomitinib by unspecified interaction
mechanism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Concomitant use with a PPI decreases
dacomitinib concentrations, which may reduce dacomitinib efficacy. Avoid use of
PPIs with dacomitinib. As an alternative to PPIs, use locally-acting antacids or an
H2-receptor antagonist. Administer at least 6 hours before or 10 hours after taking
an H2-receptor antagonist.
dasatinib
omeprazole will decrease the level or effect of dasatinib by increasing gastric pH.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
defactinib
omeprazole decreases levels of defactinib by increasing gastric pH. Applies only to
oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Defactinib exposure
decreases by 79% following concomitant use of multiple doses of omeprazole 40
mg PO daily. If concomitant use with PPIs cannot be avoided, separate
administration by at least 2 hr.
digoxin
omeprazole will increase the level or effect of digoxin by increasing gastric pH.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
enzalutamide
enzalutamide will decrease the level or effect of omeprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
erlotinib
omeprazole decreases levels of erlotinib by increasing gastric pH. Applies only to
oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Coadministration of proton
pump inhibitors and erlotinib may decrease erlotinib exposure and reduce its
efficacy. Consider alternate acid reducing agents.
fedratinib
omeprazole will increase the level or effect of fedratinib by Other (see comment).
Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Avoid coadministration of fedratinib (a CYP3A4 and
CYP2C19 substrate) with dual CYP3A4 and CYP2C19 inhibitor. Effect of
coadministration of a dual CYP3A4 and CYP2C19 inhibitor with fedratinib has not
been studied.
fluvoxamine
fluvoxamine will increase the level or effect of omeprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
idelalisib
idelalisib will increase the level or effect of omeprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
Idelalisib is a strong CYP3A inhibitor; avoid coadministration with sensitive CYP3A
substrates
6/22/26, 5:24 PM
Prilosec (omeprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prilosec-omeprazole-341997
6/28


infigratinib (DSC)
omeprazole will decrease the level or effect of infigratinib (DSC) by inhibition of GI
absorption. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
isoniazid
isoniazid will increase the level or effect of omeprazole by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2C19 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
itraconazole
omeprazole will decrease the level or effect of itraconazole by increasing gastric
pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
ivosidenib
ivosidenib will decrease the level or effect of omeprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Avoid
coadministration of sensitive CYP3A4 substrates with ivosidenib or replace with
alternative therapies. If coadministration is unavoidable, monitor patients for loss of
therapeutic effect of these drugs.
ketoconazole
omeprazole will decrease the level or effect of ketoconazole by increasing gastric
pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
levoketoconazole
omeprazole will decrease the level or effect of levoketoconazole by increasing
gastric pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
lonafarnib
omeprazole will increase the level or effect of lonafarnib by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. If
coadministration of lonafarnib (a sensitive CYP3A substrate) with weak CYP3A
inhibitors is unavoidable, reduce to, or continue lonafarnib at starting dose. Closely
monitor for arrhythmias and events (eg, syncope, heart palpitations) since
lonafarnib effect on QT interval is unknown.
lonafarnib will increase the level or effect of omeprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Lonafarnib may
increase the AUC and peak concentration of CYP2C19 substrates. If
coadministration unavoidable, monitor for adverse reactions and reduce the
CYP2C19 substrate dose in accordance with its approved product labeling.
mesalamine
omeprazole decreases effects of mesalamine by increasing gastric pH. Applies only
to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Applies only to sustained
release dosage form.
neratinib
omeprazole will decrease the level or effect of neratinib by increasing gastric pH.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
nilotinib
omeprazole decreases levels of nilotinib by increasing gastric pH. Applies only to
oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. As an alternative to PPIs,
6/22/26, 5:24 PM
Prilosec (omeprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prilosec-omeprazole-341997
7/28


use H2-blockers ~10 hr before or ~2 hr after nilotinib, or use antacids ~2 hr before
or ~2 hr after nilotinib (does not apply if using ODT nilotinib).
nisoldipine
omeprazole will increase the level or effect of nisoldipine by increasing gastric pH.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
pazopanib
omeprazole will decrease the level or effect of pazopanib by increasing gastric pH.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Avoid
coadministration of pazopanib with drugs that raise gastric pH; consider short-
acting antacids in place of PPIs and H2 antagonists; separate antacid and
pazopanib dosing by several hours
pexidartinib
omeprazole will decrease the level or effect of pexidartinib by inhibition of GI
absorption. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
Avoid coadministration of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) with pexidartinib. Use H2-
receptor antagonists or antacids if needed. When using alternatives to PPIs,
administer pexidartinib 2 hr before or after taking locally-acting antacids OR
administer pexidartinib at least 2 hr before or 10 hr after taking an H2-receptor
antagonist.
phenobarbital
phenobarbital will decrease the level or effect of omeprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
rifampin
rifampin will decrease the level or effect of omeprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
rifapentine
rifapentine will decrease the level or effect of omeprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
rilzabrutinib
omeprazole decreases levels of rilzabrutinib by increasing gastric pH. Applies only
to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Coadministration may
decrease rilzabrutinib exposure, resulting in reduced efficacy.
secretin
omeprazole, secretin. Other (see comment). Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
Comment: Concomitant use of PPIs may cause a hyperresponse in gastrin secretion
in response to stimulation testing with secretin, falsely suggesting gastrinoma. The
time it takes for serum gastrin concentrations to return to baseline following
discontinuation of PPIs is specific to the individual PPI. Temporarily stop
omeprazole treatment at least 14 days before assessing to allow gastrin levels to
return to baseline.
sofosbuvir/velpatasvir
omeprazole will decrease the level or effect of sofosbuvir/velpatasvir by increasing
gastric pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
Velpatasvir solubility decreases as gastric pH increases (practically insoluble at pH
6/22/26, 5:24 PM
Prilosec (omeprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prilosec-omeprazole-341997
8/28


>5). Coadministration of sofosbuvir/velpatasvir with omeprazole or other PPIs is not
recommended. If considered medically necessary, give sofosbuvir/velpatasvir with
food 4 hr before omeprazole 20 mg. Use with other PPIs has not been studied.
sotorasib
omeprazole will decrease the level or effect of sotorasib by inhibition of GI
absorption. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. If
use with an acid-reducing agent cannot be avoided, administer sotorasib 4 hr
before or 10 hr after administration of a locally-acting antacid.
sparsentan
omeprazole decreases effects of sparsentan by increasing gastric pH. Applies only
to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Proton pump inhibitors
may decrease sparsentan exposure which may reduce efficacy of sparsentan.
taletrectinib
omeprazole decreases levels of taletrectinib by increasing gastric pH. Applies only
to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Coadministration may
decrease taletrectinib exposure and reduce its efficacy.
tucatinib
tucatinib will increase the level or effect of omeprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Avoid
concomitant use of tucatinib with CYP3A substrates, where minimal concentration
changes may lead to serious or life-threatening toxicities. If unavoidable, reduce
CYP3A substrate dose according to product labeling.
ziftomenib
omeprazole decreases levels of ziftomenib by unspecified interaction mechanism.
Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Proton pump inhibitors decrease zifomenib peak
plasma concentations by 70%.
Monitor Closely (94)
abrocitinib
omeprazole will increase the level or effect of abrocitinib by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Start abrocitinib 50
mg qDay when coadministered with CYP2C19 inhibitors. If adequate response not
achieved after 12 weeks, may increase to 100 mg qDay. Discontinue if inadequate
response after dosage increase.
amphetamine
omeprazole, amphetamine. Other (see comment). Use Caution/Monitor. Comment:
Reduced gastric acidity caused by proton pump inhibitors decreases time to Tmax
for amphetamine and dextroamphetamine. AUC was unaffected. .
ampicillin
omeprazole will decrease the level or effect of ampicillin by increasing gastric pH.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
armodafinil
6/22/26, 5:24 PM
Prilosec (omeprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prilosec-omeprazole-341997
9/28


armodafinil will increase the level or effect of omeprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
avapritinib
omeprazole will increase the level or effect of avapritinib by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
axitinib
omeprazole increases levels of axitinib by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme
CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
belumosudil
omeprazole will decrease the level or effect of belumosudil by increasing gastric
pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.
Increase belumosudil dosage to 200 mg PO BID when coadministered with proton
pump inhibitors.
belzutifan
omeprazole will increase the level or effect of belzutifan by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Belzutifan is a
CYP2C19 substrate. Coadministration with CYP2C19 inhibitors may increase
incidence or severity of adverse effects. Monitor for anemia and hypoxia and reduce
belzutifan dose as recommended.
bortezomib
bortezomib will increase the level or effect of omeprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
bosutinib
omeprazole decreases levels of bosutinib by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: PPIs may decrease bosutinib concentration by ~45%;
bosutinib displays pH-dependent solubility.
budesonide
omeprazole decreases effects of budesonide by increasing gastric pH. Applies only
to oral form of both agents. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Enteric-coated
budesonide dissolves at pH >5.5. Also, dissolution of extended-release budesonide
tablets is pH dependent. Coadministration with drugs that increase gastric pH may
cause these budesonide products to prematurely dissolve, and possibly affect
release properties and absorption of the drug in the duodenum.
butalbital
butalbital will decrease the level or effect of omeprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
cannabidiol
omeprazole will increase the level or effect of cannabidiol by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Consider reducing
the cannabidiol dose when coadministered with a strong CYP2C19 inhibitor.
cannabidiol will increase the level or effect of omeprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Consider reducing
6/22/26, 5:24 PM
Prilosec (omeprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prilosec-omeprazole-341997
10/28


the dose of sensitive CYP2C19 substrates, as clinically appropriate, when
coadministered with cannabidiol.
capecitabine
omeprazole decreases effects of capecitabine by unknown mechanism. Use
Caution/Monitor. Retrospective data suggest elevated gastric pH caused by PPI use
may impair capecitabine tablet dissolution and/or reduce absorption.
carbamazepine
carbamazepine will decrease the level or effect of omeprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
carbonyl iron
omeprazole will decrease the level or effect of carbonyl iron by increasing gastric
pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
cefpodoxime
omeprazole decreases effects of cefpodoxime by increasing gastric pH. Applies only
to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
cefuroxime
omeprazole decreases effects of cefuroxime by increasing gastric pH. Applies only
to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
cenobamate
cenobamate will decrease the level or effect of omeprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.
Increase dose of CYP3A4 substrate, as needed, when coadministered with
cenobamate.
cenobamate will increase the level or effect of omeprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Consider a dose
reduction of CYP2C19 substrates, as clinically appropriate, when used
concomitantly with cenobamate.
ciprofloxacin
omeprazole will decrease the level or effect of ciprofloxacin by unknown
mechanism. Use Caution/Monitor. Absorption of the ciprofloxacin ER tablet was
slightly diminished (20%) when coadministered with omeprazole.
citalopram
omeprazole will increase the level or effect of citalopram by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Citalopram 20 mg/day is the
maximum recommended dose for patients taking CYP2C19 inhibitors because of
the risk of QT prolongation.
clobazam
omeprazole will increase the level or effect of clobazam by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Dosage adjustment may be
required; CYP2C19 inhibitors may result in increased exposure to N-
desmethylclobazam (active metabolite).
cobicistat
6/22/26, 5:24 PM
Prilosec (omeprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prilosec-omeprazole-341997
11/28


cobicistat will increase the level or effect of omeprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
conivaptan
conivaptan will increase the level or effect of omeprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
crizotinib
omeprazole will decrease the level or effect of crizotinib by increasing gastric pH.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor. Drugs that elevate
the gastric pH may decrease the solubility of crizotinib and subsequently reduce its
bioavailability. However, no formal studies have been conducted.
cyclosporine
omeprazole, cyclosporine. Either increases toxicity of the other by Other (see
comment). Use Caution/Monitor. Comment: Long-term use of PPIs may cause
hypomagnesemia and increase this risk when coadministered with drugs that may
also decrease magnesium levels.
dabrafenib
omeprazole will decrease the level or effect of dabrafenib by increasing gastric pH.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor. Drugs that alter
upper GI tract pH (eg, PPIs, H2-blockers, antacids) may decrease dabrafenib
solubility and reduce its bioavailability
dabrafenib will decrease the level or effect of omeprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Use alternative if
available
dextroamphetamine
omeprazole, dextroamphetamine. Other (see comment). Use Caution/Monitor.
Comment: Reduced gastric acidity caused by proton pump inhibitors decreases time
to Tmax for amphetamine and dextroamphetamine. AUC was unaffected. .
diazepam buccal
omeprazole will increase the level or effect of diazepam buccal by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Strong or moderate CYP2C19
inhibitors may decrease rate of diazepam elimination, thereby increasing adverse
reactions to diazepam.
diazepam intranasal
omeprazole will increase the level or effect of diazepam intranasal by affecting
hepatic enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Strong or moderate
CYP2C19 inhibitors may decrease rate of diazepam elimination, thereby increasing
adverse reactions to diazepam.
dichlorphenamide
dichlorphenamide and omeprazole both decrease serum potassium. Use
Caution/Monitor.
digoxin
omeprazole increases toxicity of digoxin by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: Prolonged use of PPIs may cause hypomagnesemia and
6/22/26, 5:24 PM
Prilosec (omeprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prilosec-omeprazole-341997
12/28


increase risk for digoxin toxicity.
dordaviprone
dordaviprone and omeprazole both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.
Increase the frequency of ECG and electrolyte monitoring.
efavirenz
efavirenz will increase the level or effect of omeprazole by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
efavirenz will decrease the level or effect of omeprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
elagolix
elagolix will increase the level or effect of omeprazole by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2C19 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Elagolix is a weak inhibitor
of CYP2C19. No dose adjustments are needed for omeprazole with 40 mg/day or
less. Consider omeprazole dose reduction with higher omeprazole doses (eg, dose
for Zollinger-Ellison) if coadministered with elagolix.
elagolix decreases levels of omeprazole by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme
CYP3A4 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Elagolix is a weak-to-
moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Monitor CYP3A substrates if coadministered. Consider
increasing CYP3A substrate dose if needed.
eluxadoline
omeprazole increases levels of eluxadoline by affecting hepatic enzyme CYP2C19
metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. As a precautionary measure due to incomplete
information on the metabolism of eluxadoline, use caution when coadministered
with strong CYP2C19 inhibitors.
encorafenib
encorafenib, omeprazole. affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism.
Use Caution/Monitor. Encorafenib both inhibits and induces CYP3A4 at clinically
relevant plasma concentrations. Coadministration of encorafenib with sensitive
CYP3A4 substrates may result in increased toxicity or decreased efficacy of these
agents.
escitalopram
omeprazole will increase the level or effect of escitalopram by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
eslicarbazepine acetate
eslicarbazepine acetate will increase the level or effect of omeprazole by affecting
hepatic enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
etravirine
etravirine will increase the level or effect of omeprazole by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
fedratinib
fedratinib will increase the level or effect of omeprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Adjust dose
6/22/26, 5:24 PM
Prilosec (omeprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prilosec-omeprazole-341997
13/28


of drugs that are CYP3A4 substrates as necessary.
ferric gluconate
omeprazole will decrease the level or effect of ferric gluconate by increasing gastric
pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
ferric maltol
omeprazole will decrease the level or effect of ferric maltol by increasing gastric pH.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
ferrous fumarate
omeprazole will decrease the level or effect of ferrous fumarate by increasing
gastric pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
ferrous gluconate
omeprazole will decrease the level or effect of ferrous gluconate by increasing
gastric pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
ferrous sulfate
omeprazole will decrease the level or effect of ferrous sulfate by increasing gastric
pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
fexinidazole
fexinidazole will increase the level or effect of omeprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
finerenone
omeprazole will increase the level or effect of finerenone by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.
Monitor serum potassium during initiation and dosage adjustment of either
finererone or weak CYP3A4 inhibitors. Adjust finererone dosage as needed.
flibanserin
omeprazole will increase the level or effect of flibanserin by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Coadministration
of flibanserin with strong CYP2C19 inhibitors may increase flibanserin exposure
and increase the risk of hypotension, syncope, and CNS depression.
omeprazole will increase the level or effect of flibanserin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Increased
flibanserin adverse effects may occur if coadministered with multiple weak CYP3A4
inhibitors.
fluconazole
fluconazole will increase the level or effect of omeprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
fosamprenavir
omeprazole will decrease the level or effect of fosamprenavir by increasing gastric
pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
fosphenytoin
6/22/26, 5:24 PM
Prilosec (omeprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prilosec-omeprazole-341997
14/28


fosphenytoin will decrease the level or effect of omeprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
gefitinib
omeprazole decreases levels of gefitinib by increasing gastric pH. Applies only to
oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor. Avoid coadministration of gefitinib
with PPIs if possible. If treatment with a PPI is required, separate gefitinib and PPI
doses by 12 hr.
imipramine
omeprazole will increase the level or effect of imipramine by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
iron dextran complex
omeprazole will decrease the level or effect of iron dextran complex by increasing
gastric pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
iron sucrose
omeprazole will decrease the level or effect of iron sucrose by increasing gastric pH.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
isavuconazonium sulfate
omeprazole will increase the level or effect of isavuconazonium sulfate by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
istradefylline
istradefylline will increase the level or effect of omeprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Istradefylline
40 mg/day increased peak levels and AUC of CYP3A4 substrates in clinical trials.
This effect was not observed with istradefylline 20 mg/day. Consider dose reduction
of sensitive CYP3A4 substrates.
ledipasvir/sofosbuvir
omeprazole decreases levels of ledipasvir/sofosbuvir by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: Ledipasvir solubility decreases as pH increases; drugs
that increase gastric pH are expected to decrease levels of ledipasvir; proton-pump
inhibitor doses comparable to omeprazole <20 mg can be administered
simultaneously with ledipasvir/sofosbuvir under fasted conditions.
lemborexant
omeprazole will increase the level or effect of lemborexant by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.
Lower nightly dose of lemborexant recommended if coadministered with weak
CYP3A4 inhibitors. See drug monograph for specific dosage modification.
letermovir
letermovir increases levels of omeprazole by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme
CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Monitor and dose adjustment may be
necessary.
lumacaftor/ivacaftor
lumacaftor/ivacaftor, omeprazole. affecting hepatic enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism.
Use Caution/Monitor. In vitro studies suggest that lumacaftor may induce and
6/22/26, 5:24 PM
Prilosec (omeprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prilosec-omeprazole-341997
15/28


ivacaftor may inhibit CYP2C19 substrates. .
lumacaftor/ivacaftor will decrease the level or effect of omeprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
Lumacaftor/ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and also has the potential to
induce CYP2C19 and both induce and inhibitor P-gp.
mavacamten
omeprazole increases levels of mavacamten by affecting hepatic enzyme CYP2C19
metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Modify mavacamten dose if
coadministered with weak or moderate CYP2C19 inhibitors.
methotrexate
omeprazole increases levels of methotrexate by decreasing renal clearance. Use
Caution/Monitor. Temporary withdrawal of PPI may be considered in some patients.
methylphenidate
omeprazole decreases effects of methylphenidate by enhancing GI absorption.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Since the
characteristics of methylphenidate extended release capsules (Ritalin LA) are pH
dependent, coadministration of antacids or acid suppressants could alter the
release of methylphenidate. Consider separating the administration of the antacid
and the methylphenidate extended-release capsules may be avoided.
midazolam intranasal
omeprazole will increase the level or effect of midazolam intranasal by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
Coadministration of mild CYP3A4 inhibitors with midazolam intranasal may cause
higher midazolam systemic exposure, which may prolong sedation.
mitapivat
mitapivat decreases levels of omeprazole by affecting hepatic enzyme CYP2C19
metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Monitor patients for loss of therapeutic effect if
taking sensitive CYP2C19 substrates. .
modafinil
modafinil will increase the level or effect of omeprazole by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
mycophenolate
omeprazole will decrease the level or effect of mycophenolate by increasing gastric
pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor. Potential
interaction applies to mycophenolate mofetil. Enteric coated mycophenolate sodium
formulation is less sensitive to this interaction. Clinical significance unclear.
ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir & dasabuvir (DSC)
ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir & dasabuvir (DSC) will decrease the level or effect
of omeprazole by unspecified interaction mechanism. Use Caution/Monitor. Monitor
for decreased omeprazole efficacy; consider increasing omeprazole dose in patients
whose symptoms are not well controlled (not to exceed 40 mg/day)
oxcarbazepine
6/22/26, 5:24 PM
Prilosec (omeprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prilosec-omeprazole-341997
16/28


oxcarbazepine will increase the level or effect of omeprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
paltusotine
omeprazole decreases levels of paltusotine by increasing gastric pH. Applies only
to oral form of both agents. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Coadministration
demonstrated a dose-dependent decrease in paltusotine exposure owing to
decreased paltusotine solubility at elevated gastric pH. May require increased
paltusotine dose. Avoid coadministration if patient is already taking paltusotine 60
mg.
pentobarbital
pentobarbital will decrease the level or effect of omeprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
phenobarbital
phenobarbital will decrease the level or effect of omeprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
phenytoin
phenytoin will decrease the level or effect of omeprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
polysaccharide iron
omeprazole will decrease the level or effect of polysaccharide iron by increasing
gastric pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
posaconazole
omeprazole will decrease the level or effect of posaconazole by increasing gastric
pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
posaconazole will increase the level or effect of omeprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
primidone
primidone will decrease the level or effect of omeprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
primidone will decrease the level or effect of omeprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
revumenib
revumenib and omeprazole both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor. ECG
monitoring recommended if concomitant use can?t be avoided and withhold
therapy if QTc interval is >480 msec; restart therapy after QTc interval returns to
<480 msec
rifampin
rifampin will decrease the level or effect of omeprazole by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
riociguat
6/22/26, 5:24 PM
Prilosec (omeprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prilosec-omeprazole-341997
17/28


omeprazole will decrease the level or effect of riociguat by increasing gastric pH.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
ritonavir
ritonavir will increase the level or effect of omeprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
rose hips
omeprazole will decrease the level or effect of rose hips by increasing gastric pH.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
sparsentan
sparsentan will decrease the level or effect of omeprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Sparsentan (a CYP2C19
inducer) decreases exposure of CYP2C19 substrates and reduces efficacy related to
these substrates.
St John's Wort
St John's Wort will decrease the level or effect of omeprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
stiripentol
stiripentol, omeprazole. affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism.
Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Stiripentol is a CYP3A4 inhibitor and inducer.
Monitor CYP3A4 substrates coadministered with stiripentol for increased or
decreased effects. CYP3A4 substrates may require dosage adjustment.
stiripentol will increase the level or effect of omeprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Consider reducing
the dose of CYP2C19 substrates, if adverse reactions are experienced when
administered concomitantly with stiripentol.
tacrolimus
omeprazole will increase the level or effect of tacrolimus by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Concomitant administration
may increase tacrolimus whole blood concentrations, particularly in intermediate or
poor metabolizers of CYP2C19
taletrectinib
taletrectinib and omeprazole both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.
Concomitant use may increase the risk of QTc interval prolongation. If concomitant
use is unavoidable, adjust the frequency of ECG and electrolyte monitoring.
tinidazole
omeprazole will increase the level or effect of tinidazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
tofacitinib
omeprazole increases levels of tofacitinib by affecting hepatic enzyme CYP2C19
metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. No specific dose adjustment recommended when
tofacitinib coadministered with potent CYP2C19 inhibitors; decrease tofacitinib
6/22/26, 5:24 PM
Prilosec (omeprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prilosec-omeprazole-341997
18/28


dose if coadministered with both moderate CYP3A4 and potent CYP2C19 inhibitors
.
triclabendazole
triclabendazole will increase the level or effect of omeprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
voriconazole
voriconazole will increase the level or effect of omeprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
voriconazole will increase the level or effect of omeprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
warfarin
omeprazole will increase the level or effect of warfarin by Other (see comment).
Use Caution/Monitor. Warfarin's less potent R-enantiomer is metabolized in part by
CYP3A4 (and also CYP1A2 and CYP2C19). Monitor INR more frequently if
coadministered with inhibitors of these isoenzymes and adjust warfarin dose if
needed.
ziftomenib
omeprazole, ziftomenib. QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor. Caution if ziftomenib is
coadministered with drugs that exacerbated risk of QT prolongation (eg,
hypokalemia, orthostatic hypotension, inhibits metabolism of ziftomenib).
Minor (50)
acetazolamide
acetazolamide will increase the level or effect of omeprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
alprazolam
omeprazole increases levels of alprazolam by decreasing metabolism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.
ambrisentan
omeprazole will increase the level or effect of ambrisentan by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
anastrozole
anastrozole will increase the level or effect of omeprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
bismuth subsalicylate
omeprazole increases levels of bismuth subsalicylate by enhancing GI absorption.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Minor/Significance Unknown.
blessed thistle
blessed thistle decreases effects of omeprazole by pharmacodynamic antagonism.
Minor/Significance Unknown. Theoretical interaction.
6/22/26, 5:24 PM
Prilosec (omeprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prilosec-omeprazole-341997
19/28


bosentan
bosentan will decrease the level or effect of omeprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
carbamazepine
omeprazole increases levels of carbamazepine by decreasing metabolism.
Minor/Significance Unknown. Monitor plasma levels when used concomitantly.
chlordiazepoxide
omeprazole increases levels of chlordiazepoxide by decreasing metabolism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.
clomipramine
omeprazole will increase the level or effect of clomipramine by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
clonazepam
omeprazole increases levels of clonazepam by decreasing metabolism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.
clorazepate
omeprazole increases levels of clorazepate by decreasing metabolism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.
cyanocobalamin
omeprazole decreases levels of cyanocobalamin by inhibition of GI absorption.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Minor/Significance Unknown.
cyclophosphamide
cyclophosphamide will increase the level or effect of omeprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
danazol
danazol will increase the level or effect of omeprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
darifenacin
darifenacin will decrease the level or effect of omeprazole by Other (see comment).
Minor/Significance Unknown. Effectiveness of proton pump inhibitors may be
decreased theoretically if administered with other antisecretory agents
devil's claw
devil's claw decreases effects of omeprazole by pharmacodynamic antagonism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.
dexamethasone
dexamethasone will decrease the level or effect of omeprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
diazepam
omeprazole will increase the level or effect of diazepam by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
6/22/26, 5:24 PM
Prilosec (omeprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prilosec-omeprazole-341997
20/28


dronedarone
dronedarone will increase the level or effect of omeprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
drospirenone
drospirenone will increase the level or effect of omeprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
elvitegravir/cobicistat/emtricitabine/tenofovir DF
elvitegravir/cobicistat/emtricitabine/tenofovir DF, omeprazole. affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
Based on drug interaction studies conducted with the components of Stribild, no
clinically significant drug interactions have been either observed or are expected
when coadministered with PPIs.
eslicarbazepine acetate
eslicarbazepine acetate decreases effects of omeprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
Monitor for GI symptoms; net increased or decreased effect on PPI action unclear
due to opposing CYP450 actions.
estazolam
omeprazole increases levels of estazolam by decreasing metabolism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.
etravirine
omeprazole will increase the level or effect of etravirine by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2C19 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
ferric carboxymaltose
omeprazole will decrease the level or effect of ferric carboxymaltose by increasing
gastric pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Minor/Significance Unknown.
fluoxetine
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of omeprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C9/10 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
flurazepam
omeprazole increases levels of flurazepam by decreasing metabolism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.
glipizide
omeprazole will increase the level or effect of glipizide by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2C19 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
larotrectinib
larotrectinib will increase the level or effect of omeprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
levoketoconazole
levoketoconazole will increase the level or effect of omeprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
6/22/26, 5:24 PM
Prilosec (omeprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prilosec-omeprazole-341997
21/28


levothyroxine
omeprazole decreases levels of levothyroxine by increasing gastric pH. Applies only
to oral form of both agents. Minor/Significance Unknown. Conflicting evidence
regarding this interaction exists.
liothyronine
omeprazole decreases levels of liothyronine by increasing gastric pH. Applies only
to oral form of both agents. Minor/Significance Unknown. Conflicting evidence
regarding this interaction exists.
liotrix
omeprazole decreases levels of liotrix by increasing gastric pH. Applies only to oral
form of both agents. Minor/Significance Unknown. Conflicting evidence regarding
this interaction exists.
lisdexamfetamine
omeprazole, lisdexamfetamine. Other (see comment). Minor/Significance Unknown.
Comment: Reduced gastric acidity caused by proton pump inhibitors decreases time
to Tmax for amphetamine and dextroamphetamine. AUC was unaffected. .
lorazepam
omeprazole increases levels of lorazepam by decreasing metabolism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.
methamphetamine
omeprazole decreases levels of methamphetamine by Other (see comment).
Minor/Significance Unknown. Comment: Time to maximum concentration (Tmax) of
amphetamine is decreased compared to when administered alone; monitor patients
for changes in clinical effect and adjust therapy based on clinical response.
midazolam
omeprazole increases levels of midazolam by decreasing metabolism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.
mitotane
mitotane decreases levels of omeprazole by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme
CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown. Mitotane is a strong inducer of
cytochrome P-4503A4; monitor when coadministered with CYP3A4 substrates for
possible dosage adjustments.
ospemifene
omeprazole increases levels of ospemifene by affecting hepatic enzyme CYP2C19
metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
phytoestrogens
omeprazole decreases levels of phytoestrogens by inhibition of GI absorption.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Minor/Significance Unknown.
ponatinib
omeprazole decreases levels of ponatinib by increasing gastric pH. Applies only to
oral form of both agents. Minor/Significance Unknown.
quazepam
6/22/26, 5:24 PM
Prilosec (omeprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prilosec-omeprazole-341997
22/28


omeprazole increases levels of quazepam by decreasing metabolism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.
ribociclib
ribociclib will increase the level or effect of omeprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
ruxolitinib
omeprazole will increase the level or effect of ruxolitinib by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
ruxolitinib topical
omeprazole will increase the level or effect of ruxolitinib topical by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
theophylline
omeprazole increases toxicity of theophylline by Other (see comment).
Minor/Significance Unknown. Comment: Prolonged use of proton pump inhibitors
can cause hypochlorhydria, which in turn causes peristalsis in small intestine to
increase and peristalsis in the proximal colon to decrease; monitor for toxicity.
thyroid desiccated
omeprazole decreases levels of thyroid desiccated by increasing gastric pH. Applies
only to oral form of both agents. Minor/Significance Unknown. Conflicting evidence
regarding this interaction exists.
triazolam
omeprazole increases levels of triazolam by decreasing metabolism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.
voriconazole
omeprazole will increase the level or effect of voriconazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
Adverse Effects
1-10%
Headache (7%)
Abdominal pain (5%)
Diarrhea (4%)
Nausea (4%)
Vomiting (3%)
Flatulence (3%)
Dizziness (2%)
6/22/26, 5:24 PM
Prilosec (omeprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prilosec-omeprazole-341997
23/28


Upper respiratory infection (2%)
Acid regurgitation (2%)
Constipation (2%)
Rash (2%)
Cough (1%)
Frequency Not Defined
Fracture of bone, osteoporosis-related
Hepatotoxicity (rare)
Agranulocytosis
Anorexia
Gastric polyps
Hip fracture
Alopecia
Atrophic gastritis
Interstitial nephritis (rare)
Pancreatitis (rare)
Rhabdomyolysis
Taste perversion
Abnormal dreams
Toxic epidermal necrolysis (rare)
Postmarketing Reports
Bone fracture
Fundic gland polyps
Acute tubulointerstitial nephritis
Erectile dysfunction
Warnings
Contraindications
Hypersensitivity to omeprazole or other proton pump inhibitors (PPIs)
Cautions
6/22/26, 5:24 PM
Prilosec (omeprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prilosec-omeprazole-341997
24/28


PPIs are possibly associated with increased incidence of Clostridium difficile-associated
diarrhea (CDAD); consider diagnosis of CDAD for patients taking PPIs who have diarrhea
that does not improve
May require dosage reduction with liver disease
Cutaneous lupus erythematosus (CLE) and systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) reported
with PPIs; avoid using for longer than medically indicated; discontinue if signs or
symptoms consistent with CLE or SLE are observed and refer patient to specialist
Shown to cause gastric carcinoid tumors in rats with increased doses, but risk in humans
unconfirmed
Published observational studies suggest that PPI therapy may be associated with an
increased risk for osteoporosis-related fractures of the hip, wrist, or spine, particularly
with prolonged (>1 yr), high-dose therapy
Hypomagnesemia may occur with prolonged use (>1 year); adverse effects may result
and include tetany, arrhythmias, and seizures; in 25% of cases reviewed, magnesium
supplementation alone did not improve low serum magnesium levels and the PPI had to
be discontinued
Decreased gastric acidity increases serum chromogranin A (CgA) levels and may cause
false-positive diagnostic results for neuroendocrine tumors; temporarily discontinue PPIs
before assessing CgA levels
Inhibits hepatic isoenzyme CYP2C19 and may alter metabolism of drugs that are
CYP2C19 substrates
PPIs may decrease the efficacy of clopidogrel by reducing the formation of the active
metabolite
Stop use and inform a healthcare professional if rash or joint pain develops
Daily long-term use (e.g., longer than 3 years) may lead to malabsorption or a deficiency
of cyanocobalamin
Acute interstitial nephritis has been observed in patients taking PPIs
Relief of symptoms does not eliminate the possibility of a gastric malignancy
Therapy increases risk of Salmonella, Campylobacter, and other infections
May elevate and/or prolong serum concentrations of methotrexate and/or its metabolite
when administered concomitantly with PPIs, possibly leading to toxicity; consider a
temporary withdrawal of PPI therapy therapy with high dose methotrexate
administration
PPI therapy is associated with increased risk of fundic gland polyp; risk increases with
long-term use >1 year; patient may be asymptomatic; problem usually identified
incidentally on endoscopy; use shortest duration of therapy appropriate to condition
being treated
If patient taking a prescription drug, the patient should ask a doctor or a pharmacist
whether acid reducers can be taken concomitantly with it
Therapy may cause severe skin reactions, including skin reddening, blisters, rash; if an
6/22/26, 5:24 PM
Prilosec (omeprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prilosec-omeprazole-341997
25/28


allergic reaction occurs, stop use and seek medical help right away
Acute tubulointerstitial nephritis (TIN) reported in patients taking PPIs; may occur at any
point during PPI therapy; patients may present with varying signs and symptoms from
symptomatic hypersensitivity reactions to non-specific symptoms of decreased renal
function (eg, malaise, nausea, anorexia); in reported case series, some patients were
diagnosed on biopsy and in absence of extra-renal manifestations (eg, fever, rash or
arthralgia); discontinue therapy and evaluate patients with suspected acute TIN
Pregnancy & Lactation
Pregnancy
There are no adequate and well-controlled studies in pregnant women; available
epidemiologic data fail to demonstrate an increased risk of major congenital
malformations or other adverse pregnancy outcomes with first trimester omeprazole use;
reproduction studies in rats and rabbits resulted in dose-dependent embryo-lethality at
omeprazole doses that were approximately 3.4 to 34 times an oral human dose of 40
mg (based on a body surface area for a 60 kg person)
Teratogenicity was not observed in animal reproduction studies with administration of
oral esomeprazole (an enantiomer of omeprazole) magnesium in rats and rabbits during
organogenesis with doses about 68 times and 42 times, respectively, an oral human
dose of 40 mg esomeprazole or 40 mg omeprazole (based on body surface area for a 60
kg person); changes in bone morphology were observed in offspring of rats dosed
through most of pregnancy and lactation at doses equal to or greater than approximately
34 times an oral human dose of 40 mg esomeprazole or 40 mg omeprazole; when
maternal administration was confined to gestation only, there were no effects on bone
physeal morphology in offspring at any age
Lactation
Limited data suggest omeprazole may be present in human milk; there are no clinical
data on effects of omeprazole on breastfed infant or on milk production; developmental
and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with mother's clinical
need for therapy and any potential adverse effects on breastfed infant from treatment or
from underlying maternal condition
Pregnancy Categories
A: Generally acceptable. Controlled studies in pregnant women show no evidence of
fetal risk.
B: May be acceptable. Either animal studies show no risk but human studies not available
or animal studies showed minor risks and human studies done and showed no risk.
C: Use with caution if benefits outweigh risks. Animal studies show risk and human
studies not available or neither animal nor human studies done.
D: Use in LIFE-THREATENING emergencies when no safer drug available. Positive
evidence of human fetal risk.
X: Do not use in pregnancy. Risks involved outweigh potential benefits. Safer alternatives
exist.
6/22/26, 5:24 PM
Prilosec (omeprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prilosec-omeprazole-341997
26/28


NA: Information not available.
Pharmacology
Mechanism of Action
PPI; binds to H+/K+-exchanging ATPase (proton pump) in gastric parietal cells, resulting
in suppression of basal and stimulated acid secretion
Absorption
Bioavailability: 30-40%
Onset of action: 1 hr (antisecretory effect)
Duration: 73 hr
Peak plasma time: 0.5-3.5 hr
Peak response (PUD): 2 hr (initial); 5 days (peak)
Distribution
Protein bound: 95-96%
Vd: 0.39 L/kg
Metabolism
Metabolized extensively by hepatic CYP2C19; slow metabolizers are deficient in
CYP2C19 enzyme system; plasma concentration can increase by 5-fold or higher in
comparison with that found in persons with the enzyme
Metabolites: Hydroxyomeprazole, omeprazole sulfone, omeprazole sulfide (inactive)
Enzymes inhibited: CYP2C19
Elimination
Half-life: 0.5-1 hr; increases to 3 hr with hepatic impairment
Dialyzable: No
Total body clearance: 500-600 mL/min
Excretion: Urine (77%); feces (16-19%; mainly in bile)
Pharmacogenomics
CYP2C19 poor metabolizers
Asians have ~4-fold higher exposure to omeprazole than whites
CYP2C19, a polymorphic enzyme, is involved in the metabolism of omeprazole
6/22/26, 5:24 PM
Prilosec (omeprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prilosec-omeprazole-341997
27/28


~15-20% of Asians are CYP2C19 poor metabolizers
Tests are available to identify a patient’s CYP2C19 genotype
Avoid use in Asian patients with unknown CYP2C19 genotype or those who are
known to be poor metabolizers
Formulary
Adding plans allows you to compare formulary status to other drugs in the same class.
Formulary information is available for health plans only in the United States.
Medscape prescription drug monographs are based on FDA-approved labeling information, unless otherwise noted,
combined with additional data derived from primary medical literature.
6/22/26, 5:24 PM
Prilosec (omeprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prilosec-omeprazole-341997
28/28
