This site is intended for healthcare professionals
pantoprazole (Rx)
Brand and Other Names: Protonix
Classes: Proton Pump Inhibitors
Dosing & Uses
ADULT
Dosage Forms & Strengths
tablet, delayed-release
20mg
40mg
granules for oral suspension, delayed-release
40mg/packet
injection, solution (single-dose container)
40mg/100mL in 0.9% NaCl (0.4mg/mL)
40mg/50mL in 0.9% NaCl (0.8mg/mL)
80mg/100mL in 0.9% NaCl (0.8mg/mL)
injection, powder for reconstitution
40mg/vial
Erosive Esophagitis Associated With GERD
Treatment: 40 mg PO qDay for 8-16 weeks
Maintenance of healing: 40 mg PO qDay
Alternatively, 40 mg IV qDay for 7-10 days
Short-term Treatment of GERD
6/22/26, 5:30 PM
Protonix (pantoprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/protonix-pantoprazole-342001
1/26

Oral therapy inappropriate or not possible: 40 mg IV infusion over 15 minutes qDay for
7-10 days; switch to PO once patient able to swallow
Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome
40 mg PO qDay; up to 240 mg/day administered in some patients
80 mg IV infusion q8-12hr up to 7 days; switch to PO once patient able to swallow
Peptic Ulcer Disease (Off-label)
Duodenal ulcer: 40 mg PO qDay for 2 weeks
Gastric ulcer: 40 mg PO qDay for 4 weeks
PEDIATRIC
Dosage Forms & Strengths
granules for oral suspension, delayed-release
40mg/packet
tablet, delayed-release
20mg
40mg
injection, powder for reconstitution
40mg/vial
Erosive Esophagitis Associated With GERD
Oral
Indicated for short-term treatment (up to 8 weeks) of erosive esophagitis (EE)
associated with gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) in patients aged ≥5 years
<5 years: Safety and efficacy not established
≥5 years
15 kg to <40 kg: 20 mg PO qDay
≥40 kg: 40 mg PO qDay
6/22/26, 5:30 PM
Protonix (pantoprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/protonix-pantoprazole-342001
2/26

Interactions
Interaction Checker
Enter a drug name to check for any interactions. Type a drug, OTC, or herbal  and
pantoprazole
No Interactions Found
Interactions Found
Contraindicated
Serious
Significant - Monitor Closely
Minor
All Interactions Sort By: Severity
Contraindicated (2)
nelfinavir
pantoprazole decreases levels of nelfinavir by unspecified interaction mechanism.
Contraindicated. Coadministration may lead to loss of nelfinavir virologic response
and development of resistance; mechanism may be CYP2C19 inhibition of nelfinavir
conversion to active M8 metabolite, and also PPIs decreasing gastric pH resulting in
decreased nelfinavir absorption.
rilpivirine
Not to exceed 8 weeks duration
IV
Indicated for short-term treatment (up to 7 days) of EE associated with GERD in
children aged ≥3 months
<3 months: Safety and efficacy not established
Discontinue IV administration as soon as patient is able to tolerate oral treatment
3 months to <1 year
<12.5 kg: 0.8 mg/kg IV qDay 
≥12.5 kg: 10 mg IV qDay
1-17 years
≤15 kg: 10 mg IV qDay
>15 kg to ≤40 kg: 20 mg IV qDay
>40 kg: 40 mg IV qDay
6/22/26, 5:30 PM
Protonix (pantoprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/protonix-pantoprazole-342001
3/26

pantoprazole decreases levels of rilpivirine by increasing gastric pH. Applies only to
oral form of both agents. Contraindicated. Concurrent use may cause treatment
failure and/or the development of rilpivirine or NNRTI resistance owing to
decreased levels.
Serious (32)
acalabrutinib
pantoprazole decreases levels of acalabrutinib by increasing gastric pH. Applies
only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Acalabrutinib
solubility decreases with increasing gastric pH. Due to the long-lasting effect of
PPIs, separation of doses may not eliminate the interaction.
alpelisib
pantoprazole will increase the level or effect of alpelisib by Other (see comment).
Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Coadministration of alpelisib (BCRP substrate) with a
BCRP inhibitor may increase alpelisib concentration, which may increase the risk of
toxicities. If unable to avoid or use alternant drugs, closely monitor for increased
adverse reactions.
apalutamide
apalutamide will decrease the level or effect of pantoprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Coadministration of
apalutamide, a strong CYP2C19 inducer, with drugs that are CYP2C19 substrates
can result in lower exposure to these medications. Avoid or substitute another drug
for these medications when possible. Evaluate for loss of therapeutic effect if
medication must be coadministered.
atazanavir
pantoprazole will decrease the level or effect of atazanavir by increasing gastric pH.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Atazanavir
solubility decreases as pH increases. Substantially reduced plasma concentrations
of atazanavir are expected if PPIs are coadministered. PPI dose should not exceed a
dose comparable to omeprazole 20 mg and must be taken ~12 h before
atazanavir/ritonavir in treatment naive-patients. PPIs are not recommended in
treatment-experienced taking atazanavir.
dacomitinib
pantoprazole will increase the level or effect of dacomitinib by unspecified
interaction mechanism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Concomitant use with a PPI
decreases dacomitinib concentrations, which may reduce dacomitinib efficacy. Avoid
use of PPIs with dacomitinib. As an alternative to PPIs, use locally-acting antacids
or an H2-receptor antagonist. Administer at least 6 hours before or 10 hours after
taking an H2-receptor antagonist.
darolutamide
darolutamide will increase the level or effect of pantoprazole by Other (see
comment). Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Darolutamide is a BCRP inhibitor. Avoid
coadministration with BCRP inhibitors. If use is unavoidable, closely monitor for
adverse reactions and consider dose reduction of BCRP substrate drug (refer BCRP
substrate prescribing information).
6/22/26, 5:30 PM
Protonix (pantoprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/protonix-pantoprazole-342001
4/26

dasatinib
pantoprazole will decrease the level or effect of dasatinib by increasing gastric pH.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
defactinib
pantoprazole decreases levels of defactinib by increasing gastric pH. Applies only
to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Defactinib exposure may
be decreased when coadministered with proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). If
concomitant use with PPIs cannot be avoided, separate administration by at least 2
hr.
digoxin
pantoprazole will increase the level or effect of digoxin by increasing gastric pH.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
enasidenib
enasidenib will increase the level or effect of pantoprazole by Other (see comment).
Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Avoid coadministration of enasidenib with sensitive
OATP1B1, OATP1B3, or BCRP substrates, for which minimal concentration
changes may lead to serious toxicities. If unavoidable, decrease the substrate(s)
dosage in accordance with their Prescribing Information.
erlotinib
pantoprazole decreases levels of erlotinib by increasing gastric pH. Applies only to
oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Coadministration of proton
pump inhibitors and erlotinib may decrease erlotinib exposure and reduce its
efficacy. Consider alternate acid reducing agents.
infigratinib (DSC)
pantoprazole will decrease the level or effect of infigratinib (DSC) by inhibition of GI
absorption. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
itraconazole
pantoprazole will decrease the level or effect of itraconazole by increasing gastric
pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
ketoconazole
pantoprazole will decrease the level or effect of ketoconazole by increasing gastric
pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
leniolisib
leniolisib will increase the level or effect of pantoprazole by Other (see comment).
Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Leniolisib, a BCRP inhibitor, may increase systemic
exposure of BCRP substrates
levoketoconazole
pantoprazole will decrease the level or effect of levoketoconazole by increasing
gastric pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
lonafarnib
pantoprazole will increase the level or effect of lonafarnib by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. If
coadministration of lonafarnib (a sensitive CYP3A substrate) with weak CYP3A
6/22/26, 5:30 PM
Protonix (pantoprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/protonix-pantoprazole-342001
5/26

inhibitors is unavoidable, reduce to, or continue lonafarnib at starting dose. Closely
monitor for arrhythmias and events (eg, syncope, heart palpitations) since
lonafarnib effect on QT interval is unknown.
lonafarnib will increase the level or effect of pantoprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Lonafarnib may
increase the AUC and peak concentration of CYP2C19 substrates. If
coadministration unavoidable, monitor for adverse reactions and reduce the
CYP2C19 substrate dose in accordance with its approved product labeling.
mesalamine
pantoprazole decreases effects of mesalamine by increasing gastric pH. Applies
only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Applies only to
sustained release dosage form.
neratinib
pantoprazole will decrease the level or effect of neratinib by increasing gastric pH.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
nilotinib
pantoprazole decreases levels of nilotinib by increasing gastric pH. Applies only to
oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. As an alternative to PPIs,
use H2-blockers ~10 hr before or ~2 hr after nilotinib, or use antacids ~2 hr before
or ~2 hr after nilotinib (does not apply if using ODT nilotinib).
nisoldipine
pantoprazole will increase the level or effect of nisoldipine by increasing gastric pH.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
ozanimod
pantoprazole increases toxicity of ozanimod by Other (see comment). Avoid or Use
Alternate Drug. Comment: Coadministration of ozanimod (a BCRP substrate) with
BCRP inhibitors increases the exposure of the minor (RP101988, RP101075) and
major active metabolites (CC112273, CC1084037) of ozanimod, which may
increase the risk of ozanimod adverse reactions. .
pazopanib
pantoprazole will decrease the level or effect of pazopanib by increasing gastric pH.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Avoid
coadministration of pazopanib with drugs that raise gastric pH; consider short-
acting antacids in place of PPIs and H2 antagonists; separate antacid and
pazopanib dosing by several hours
pexidartinib
pantoprazole will decrease the level or effect of pexidartinib by inhibition of GI
absorption. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
Avoid coadministration of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) with pexidartinib. Use H2-
receptor antagonists or antacids if needed. When using alternatives to PPIs,
administer pexidartinib 2 hr before or after taking locally-acting antacids OR
administer pexidartinib at least 2 hr before or 10 hr after taking an H2-receptor
antagonist.
rilzabrutinib
6/22/26, 5:30 PM
Protonix (pantoprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/protonix-pantoprazole-342001
6/26

pantoprazole decreases levels of rilzabrutinib by increasing gastric pH. Applies only
to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Coadministration may
decrease rilzabrutinib exposure, resulting in reduced efficacy.
riociguat
pantoprazole will increase the level or effect of riociguat by decreasing metabolism.
Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Coadministration of riociguat (substrate of CYP
isoenzymes 1A1, 2C8, 3A, 2J2) with strong CYP inhibitors may require a decreased
initial dose of 0.5 mg PO TID; monitor for signs of hypotension and reduce dose if
needed
secretin
pantoprazole, secretin. Other (see comment). Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
Comment: Concomitant use of PPIs may cause a hyperresponse in gastrin secretion
in response to stimulation testing with secretin, falsely suggesting gastrinoma. The
time it takes for serum gastrin concentrations to return to baseline following
discontinuation of PPIs is specific to the individual PPI. Following short-term
treatment with pantoprazole, elevated gastrin levels return to normal by at least 3
months.
sofosbuvir/velpatasvir
pantoprazole will decrease the level or effect of sofosbuvir/velpatasvir by increasing
gastric pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
Velpatasvir solubility decreases as gastric pH increases (practically insoluble at pH
>5). Coadministration of sofosbuvir/velpatasvir with omeprazole or other PPIs is not
recommended. If considered medically necessary, give sofosbuvir/velpatasvir with
food 4 hr before omeprazole 20 mg. Use with other PPIs has not been studied.
sotorasib
pantoprazole will decrease the level or effect of sotorasib by inhibition of GI
absorption. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. If
use with an acid-reducing agent cannot be avoided, administer sotorasib 4 hr
before or 10 hr after administration of a locally-acting antacid.
sparsentan
pantoprazole decreases effects of sparsentan by increasing gastric pH. Applies only
to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Proton pump inhibitors
may decrease sparsentan exposure which may reduce efficacy of sparsentan.
taletrectinib
pantoprazole decreases levels of taletrectinib by increasing gastric pH. Applies only
to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Coadministration may
decrease taletrectinib exposure and reduce its efficacy.
ziftomenib
pantoprazole decreases levels of ziftomenib by unspecified interaction mechanism.
Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Proton pump inhibitors decrease zifomenib peak
plasma concentations by 70%.
Monitor Closely (78)
acalabrutinib
6/22/26, 5:30 PM
Protonix (pantoprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/protonix-pantoprazole-342001
7/26

acalabrutinib increases levels of pantoprazole by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: Acalabrutinib may increase exposure to coadministered
BCRP substrates by inhibition of intestinal BCRP.
amphetamine
pantoprazole, amphetamine. Other (see comment). Use Caution/Monitor. Comment:
Reduced gastric acidity caused by proton pump inhibitors decreases time to Tmax
for amphetamine and dextroamphetamine. AUC was unaffected. .
ampicillin
pantoprazole will decrease the level or effect of ampicillin by increasing gastric pH.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
apalutamide
apalutamide will decrease the level or effect of pantoprazole by increasing
elimination. Use Caution/Monitor. Apalutamide weakly induces BCRP and may
decrease systemic exposure of drugs that are BCRP substrates.
belumosudil
pantoprazole will decrease the level or effect of belumosudil by increasing gastric
pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.
Increase belumosudil dosage to 200 mg PO BID when coadministered with proton
pump inhibitors.
berotralstat
pantoprazole increases levels of berotralstat by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: Monitor berotralstat (a BCRP substrate) for adverse
effects when coadministered with a BCRP inhibitor.
bortezomib
bortezomib will decrease the level or effect of pantoprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
bosutinib
pantoprazole decreases levels of bosutinib by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: PPIs may decrease bosutinib concentration by ~45%;
bosutinib displays pH-dependent solubility.
budesonide
pantoprazole decreases effects of budesonide by increasing gastric pH. Applies
only to oral form of both agents. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Enteric-coated
budesonide dissolves at pH >5.5. Also, dissolution of extended-release budesonide
tablets is pH dependent. Coadministration with drugs that increase gastric pH may
cause these budesonide products to prematurely dissolve, and possibly affect
release properties and absorption of the drug in the duodenum.
cannabidiol
pantoprazole will increase the level or effect of cannabidiol by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Consider reducing
the cannabidiol dose when coadministered with a moderate CYP2C19 inhibitor.
cannabidiol will increase the level or effect of pantoprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Consider reducing
6/22/26, 5:30 PM
Protonix (pantoprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/protonix-pantoprazole-342001
8/26

the dose of sensitive CYP2C19 substrates, as clinically appropriate, when
coadministered with cannabidiol.
capecitabine
pantoprazole decreases effects of capecitabine by unknown mechanism. Use
Caution/Monitor. Retrospective data suggest elevated gastric pH caused by PPI use
may impair capecitabine tablet dissolution and/or reduce absorption.
carbamazepine
carbamazepine will decrease the level or effect of pantoprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
carbonyl iron
pantoprazole will decrease the level or effect of carbonyl iron by increasing gastric
pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
cenobamate
cenobamate will increase the level or effect of pantoprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Consider a dose
reduction of CYP2C19 substrates, as clinically appropriate, when used
concomitantly with cenobamate.
ceritinib
pantoprazole will decrease the level or effect of ceritinib by increasing gastric pH.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.
cilostazol
pantoprazole increases toxicity of cilostazol by affecting hepatic enzyme CYP2C19
metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Consider decreasing cilostazol dose;
moderate CYP2C19 inhibitors may increase serum levels of 3,4-dehydrocilostazol
(active metabolite).
clopidogrel
pantoprazole decreases effects of clopidogrel by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Clopidogrel efficacy may be reduced
by drugs that inhibit CYP2C19. Inhibition of platelet aggregation by clopidogrel is
entirely due to the active clopidogrel metabolite. Clopidogrel is metabolized in part
by CYP2C19. Pantoprazole prescribing information state that coadministration with
clopidogrel had no clinically important effect on exposure to clopidogrel active
metabolite; no dose adjustment of clopidogrel is required .
crizotinib
pantoprazole decreases levels of crizotinib by increasing gastric pH. Applies only to
oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor. Drugs that elevate the gastric pH
may decrease the solubility of crizotinib and subsequently reduce its bioavailability.
However, no formal studies have been conducted. .
cyclosporine
pantoprazole, cyclosporine. Either increases toxicity of the other by Other (see
comment). Use Caution/Monitor. Comment: When used for prolonged periods of
time PPIs may cause hypomagnesemia and the risk is further increased when used
concomitantly with drugs that also have the same effects.
6/22/26, 5:30 PM
Protonix (pantoprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/protonix-pantoprazole-342001
9/26

dabrafenib
pantoprazole will decrease the level or effect of dabrafenib by increasing gastric
pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor. Drugs that alter
upper GI tract pH (eg, PPIs, H2-blockers, antacids) may decrease dabrafenib
solubility and reduce its bioavailability
dabrafenib will decrease the level or effect of pantoprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Use alternative if
available
danicopan
danicopan will increase the level or effect of pantoprazole by Other (see comment).
Use Caution/Monitor. Danicopan increases plasma concentrations of BCRP
substrates; consider dose reduction of BCRP substrate according to its prescribing
information.
dextroamphetamine
pantoprazole, dextroamphetamine. Other (see comment). Use Caution/Monitor.
Comment: Reduced gastric acidity caused by proton pump inhibitors decreases time
to Tmax for amphetamine and dextroamphetamine. AUC was unaffected. .
diazepam buccal
pantoprazole will increase the level or effect of diazepam buccal by affecting
hepatic enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Strong or moderate
CYP2C19 inhibitors may decrease rate of diazepam elimination, thereby increasing
adverse reactions to diazepam.
diazepam intranasal
pantoprazole will increase the level or effect of diazepam intranasal by affecting
hepatic enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Strong or moderate
CYP2C19 inhibitors may decrease rate of diazepam elimination, thereby increasing
adverse reactions to diazepam.
digoxin
pantoprazole increases toxicity of digoxin by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: Prolonged use of PPIs may cause hypomagnesemia and
increase risk for digoxin toxicity.
dordaviprone
dordaviprone and pantoprazole both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.
Increase the frequency of ECG and electrolyte monitoring.
duvelisib
pantoprazole will increase the level or effect of duvelisib by Other (see comment).
Use Caution/Monitor. Coadministration of duvelisib (a BCRP substrate) with a BCRP
transport inhibitor may increase levels or effects of duvelisib.
elagolix
elagolix will increase the level or effect of pantoprazole by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2C19 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Elagolix is a weak
CYP2C19 inhibitor. Caution with sensitive CYP2C19 substrates.
encorafenib
6/22/26, 5:30 PM
Protonix (pantoprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/protonix-pantoprazole-342001
10/26

encorafenib will increase the level or effect of pantoprazole by Other (see
comment). Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Encorafenib (a BCRP inhibitor) may
increase the concentration and toxicities of BCRP substrates. Closely monitor for
signs and symptoms of increased exposure and consider adjusting the dose of
these substrates.
eslicarbazepine acetate
eslicarbazepine acetate will increase the level or effect of pantoprazole by affecting
hepatic enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
ferric gluconate
pantoprazole will decrease the level or effect of ferric gluconate by increasing
gastric pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
ferric maltol
pantoprazole will decrease the level or effect of ferric maltol by increasing gastric
pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
ferrous fumarate
pantoprazole will decrease the level or effect of ferrous fumarate by increasing
gastric pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
ferrous gluconate
pantoprazole will decrease the level or effect of ferrous gluconate by increasing
gastric pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
ferrous sulfate
pantoprazole will decrease the level or effect of ferrous sulfate by increasing gastric
pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
fexinidazole
fexinidazole will increase the level or effect of pantoprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
finerenone
pantoprazole will increase the level or effect of finerenone by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.
Monitor serum potassium during initiation and dosage adjustment of either
finererone or weak CYP3A4 inhibitors. Adjust finererone dosage as needed.
fluvoxamine
fluvoxamine will increase the level or effect of pantoprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
fosamprenavir
pantoprazole will decrease the level or effect of fosamprenavir by increasing gastric
pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
fostemsavir
fostemsavir will increase the level or effect of pantoprazole by Other (see
comment). Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Fostemsavir inhibits BCRP
6/22/26, 5:30 PM
Protonix (pantoprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/protonix-pantoprazole-342001
11/26

transporters. If possible, avoid coadministration or modify dose of BCRP substrate
coadministered with fostemsavir.
gefitinib
pantoprazole decreases levels of gefitinib by increasing gastric pH. Applies only to
oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor. Avoid coadministration of gefitinib
with PPIs if possible. If treatment with a PPI is required, separate gefitinib and PPI
doses by 12 hr.
glecaprevir/pibrentasvir
pantoprazole will increase the level or effect of glecaprevir/pibrentasvir by
decreasing metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Caution when coadministering
glecaprevir/pibrentasvir with P-gp/BCRP inhibitors.
glecaprevir/pibrentasvir will increase the level or effect of pantoprazole by Other
(see comment). Use Caution/Monitor. Glecaprevir/pibrentasvir may increase plasma
concentration of P-gp and BCRP substrates.
iron dextran complex
pantoprazole will decrease the level or effect of iron dextran complex by increasing
gastric pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
iron sucrose
pantoprazole will decrease the level or effect of iron sucrose by increasing gastric
pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
isavuconazonium sulfate
pantoprazole will increase the level or effect of isavuconazonium sulfate by
affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
itraconazole
itraconazole will increase the level or effect of pantoprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.
For patients using the Sporanox brand of itraconazole (capsules or solution),
administer proton pump inhibitors at least 2 hr before or 2 hr after itraconazole. Use
of Sporanox oral solution or administration of itraconazole with an acidic beverage
(eg, cola) may minimize the significance of this interaction.
ledipasvir/sofosbuvir
pantoprazole decreases levels of ledipasvir/sofosbuvir by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: Ledipasvir solubility decreases as pH increases; drugs
that increase gastric pH are expected to decrease levels of ledipasvir; proton-pump
inhibitor doses comparable to omeprazole <20 mg can be administered
simultaneously with ledipasvir/sofosbuvir under fasted conditions.
letermovir
letermovir increases levels of pantoprazole by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme
CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Monitor and dose adjustment may be
necessary.
lumacaftor/ivacaftor
lumacaftor/ivacaftor, pantoprazole. affecting hepatic enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism.
Use Caution/Monitor. In vitro studies suggest that lumacaftor may induce and
6/22/26, 5:30 PM
Protonix (pantoprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/protonix-pantoprazole-342001
12/26

ivacaftor may inhibit CYP2C19 substrates. .
lumacaftor/ivacaftor will decrease the level or effect of pantoprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
Lumacaftor/ivacaftor is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and also has the potential to
induce CYP2C19 and both induce and inhibitor P-gp.
methotrexate
pantoprazole increases levels of methotrexate by decreasing renal clearance. Use
Caution/Monitor. Increased risk of toxicity with higher doses.
methylphenidate
pantoprazole decreases effects of methylphenidate by enhancing GI absorption.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Since the
characteristics of methylphenidate extended release capsules (Ritalin LA) are pH
dependent, coadministration of antacids or acid suppressants could alter the
release of methylphenidate. Consider separating the administration of the antacid
and the methylphenidate extended-release capsules may be avoided.
mitapivat
mitapivat decreases levels of pantoprazole by affecting hepatic enzyme CYP2C19
metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Monitor patients for loss of therapeutic effect if
taking sensitive CYP2C19 substrates. .
momelotinib
momelotinib increases toxicity of pantoprazole by plasma protein binding
competition. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Momelotinib (BCRP inhibitor) may
increase exposure of BCRP substrates, which may increase the risk of BCRP
substrate adverse reactions. Dose adjustment of other BCRP substrates may
necessary.
mycophenolate
pantoprazole will decrease the level or effect of mycophenolate by increasing
gastric pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely. Potential interaction applies to the prodrug mycophenolate mofetil
conversion to active mycophenolic acid. Enteric coated mycophenolate sodium
formulation is less sensitive to this interaction.
oteseconazole
oteseconazole will increase the level or effect of pantoprazole by Other (see
comment). Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Otesezonale, a BCRP inhibitor, may
increase the effects and risk of toxicities of BCRP substrates. Use lowest starting
dose of BCRP substrate, or consider reducing BCRP substrate dose.
paltusotine
pantoprazole decreases levels of paltusotine by increasing gastric pH. Applies only
to oral form of both agents. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Coadministration
demonstrated a dose-dependent decrease in paltusotine exposure owing to
decreased paltusotine solubility at elevated gastric pH. May require increased
paltusotine dose. Avoid coadministration if patient is already taking paltusotine 60
mg.
phenytoin
6/22/26, 5:30 PM
Protonix (pantoprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/protonix-pantoprazole-342001
13/26

phenytoin will decrease the level or effect of pantoprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
polysaccharide iron
pantoprazole will decrease the level or effect of polysaccharide iron by increasing
gastric pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
posaconazole
pantoprazole will decrease the level or effect of posaconazole by increasing gastric
pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
regorafenib
regorafenib will increase the level or effect of pantoprazole by Other (see
comment). Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Regorafenib likely inhibits BCRP
(ABCG2) transport. Coadministration with a BCRP substrate may increase systemic
exposure to the substrate and related toxicity.
revumenib
revumenib and pantoprazole both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor. ECG
monitoring recommended if concomitant use can?t be avoided and withhold
therapy if QTc interval is >480 msec; restart therapy after QTc interval returns to
<480 msec
rifampin
rifampin will decrease the level or effect of pantoprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
rose hips
pantoprazole will decrease the level or effect of rose hips by increasing gastric pH.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.
rucaparib
rucaparib will increase the level or effect of pantoprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Adjust dosage of
CYP2C19 substrates, if clinically indicated.
safinamide
safinamide will increase the level or effect of pantoprazole by Other (see comment).
Use Caution/Monitor. Safinamide and its major metabolite may inhibit intestinal
BCRP. Monitor BCRP substrates for increased pharmacologic or adverse effects.
selexipag
pantoprazole will increase the level or effect of selexipag by Other (see comment).
Use Caution/Monitor. Selexipag is a ABCG2 (BCRP) substrate. Monitor selexipag for
increased pharmacologic or adverse effects when coadministered with ABCG2
(BCRP) inhibitors.
sparsentan
sparsentan will decrease the level or effect of pantoprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Sparsentan (a CYP2C19
inducer) decreases exposure of CYP2C19 substrates and reduces efficacy related to
these substrates.
6/22/26, 5:30 PM
Protonix (pantoprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/protonix-pantoprazole-342001
14/26

St John's Wort
St John's Wort will decrease the level or effect of pantoprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
stiripentol
stiripentol will increase the level or effect of pantoprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Consider reducing
the dose of CYP2C19 substrates, if adverse reactions are experienced when
administered concomitantly with stiripentol.
stiripentol will increase the level or effect of pantoprazole by Other (see comment).
Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Stiripentol is a BCRP transport inhibitor. Consider
dosage reduction for BCRP substrates if adverse effects are experienced when
coadministered.
tacrolimus
pantoprazole will increase the level or effect of tacrolimus by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Concomitant administration
may increase tacrolimus whole blood concentrations, particularly in intermediate or
poor metabolizers of CYP2C19
tafamidis
tafamidis will increase the level or effect of pantoprazole by Other (see comment).
Use Caution/Monitor. Tafamidis inhibits breast cancer resistant protein (BCRP) in
vitro and may increase exposure of BCRP substrates following tafamidis or
tafamidis meglumine administration. Dosage adjustment of these BCRP substrates
may be necessary.
taletrectinib
taletrectinib and pantoprazole both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.
Concomitant use may increase the risk of QTc interval prolongation. If concomitant
use is unavoidable, adjust the frequency of ECG and electrolyte monitoring.
tecovirimat
tecovirimat will increase the level or effect of pantoprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Tecovirimat is a weak inhibitor
of CYP2C8 and CYP2C19. Monitor for adverse effects if coadministered with
sensitive substrates of these enzymes.
theophylline
pantoprazole increases toxicity of theophylline by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: Prolonged use of proton pump inhibitors can cause
hypochlorhydria, which in turn causes peristalsis in small intestine to increase and
peristalsis in the proximal colon to decrease; monitor for toxicity.
triclabendazole
triclabendazole will increase the level or effect of pantoprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
vadadustat
vadadustat will increase the level or effect of pantoprazole by Other (see
comment). Use Caution/Monitor. Vadadustat may increase exposure of BCRP
6/22/26, 5:30 PM
Protonix (pantoprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/protonix-pantoprazole-342001
15/26

substrates. Monitor for signs of adverse effect of BCRP substrate and reduce
substrate dose in accordance with their product labeling.
voriconazole
voriconazole will increase the level or effect of pantoprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
voriconazole will increase the level or effect of pantoprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
ziftomenib
pantoprazole, ziftomenib. QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor. Caution if ziftomenib is
coadministered with drugs that exacerbated risk of QT prolongation (eg,
hypokalemia, orthostatic hypotension, inhibits metabolism of ziftomenib).
Minor (28)
blessed thistle
blessed thistle decreases effects of pantoprazole by pharmacodynamic antagonism.
Minor/Significance Unknown. Theoretical interaction.
clobazam
pantoprazole will increase the level or effect of clobazam by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown. Dosage adjustment
may be required; CYP2C19 inhibitors may result in increased exposure to N-
desmethylclobazam (active metabolite).
cyanocobalamin
pantoprazole decreases levels of cyanocobalamin by inhibition of GI absorption.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Minor/Significance Unknown.
darifenacin
darifenacin decreases effects of pantoprazole by Other (see comment).
Minor/Significance Unknown. Comment: Effectiveness of proton pump inhibitors
may be decreased theoretically if administered with other antisecretory agents .
devil's claw
devil's claw decreases effects of pantoprazole by pharmacodynamic antagonism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.
dexamethasone
dexamethasone will decrease the level or effect of pantoprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
dronedarone
dronedarone will increase the level or effect of pantoprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
efavirenz
efavirenz will increase the level or effect of pantoprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
6/22/26, 5:30 PM
Protonix (pantoprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/protonix-pantoprazole-342001
16/26

elvitegravir/cobicistat/emtricitabine/tenofovir DF
elvitegravir/cobicistat/emtricitabine/tenofovir DF, pantoprazole. affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
Based on drug interaction studies conducted with the components of Stribild, no
clinically significant drug interactions have been either observed or are expected
when coadministered with PPIs.
eslicarbazepine acetate
eslicarbazepine acetate will decrease the level or effect of pantoprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
Monitor for GI symptoms; net increased or decreased effect on PPI action unclear
due to opposing CYP450 actions.
etravirine
etravirine will decrease the level or effect of pantoprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
ferric carboxymaltose
pantoprazole will decrease the level or effect of ferric carboxymaltose by increasing
gastric pH. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Minor/Significance Unknown.
fluconazole
fluconazole will increase the level or effect of pantoprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
fosphenytoin
fosphenytoin will decrease the level or effect of pantoprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
ketoconazole
ketoconazole will increase the level or effect of pantoprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
ketoconazole will increase the level or effect of pantoprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
levoketoconazole
levoketoconazole will increase the level or effect of pantoprazole by affecting
hepatic enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
levoketoconazole will increase the level or effect of pantoprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
levothyroxine
pantoprazole decreases levels of levothyroxine by increasing gastric pH. Applies
only to oral form of both agents. Minor/Significance Unknown. Conflicting evidence
regarding this interaction exists.
liothyronine
pantoprazole decreases levels of liothyronine by increasing gastric pH. Applies only
to oral form of both agents. Minor/Significance Unknown. Conflicting evidence
regarding this interaction exists.
6/22/26, 5:30 PM
Protonix (pantoprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/protonix-pantoprazole-342001
17/26

liotrix
pantoprazole decreases levels of liotrix by increasing gastric pH. Applies only to
oral form of both agents. Minor/Significance Unknown. Conflicting evidence
regarding this interaction exists.
lisdexamfetamine
pantoprazole, lisdexamfetamine. Other (see comment). Minor/Significance
Unknown. Comment: Reduced gastric acidity caused by proton pump inhibitors
decreases time to Tmax for amphetamine and dextroamphetamine. AUC was
unaffected. .
methamphetamine
pantoprazole decreases levels of methamphetamine by Other (see comment).
Minor/Significance Unknown. Comment: Time to maximum concentration (Tmax) of
amphetamine is decreased compared to when administered alone; monitor patients
for changes in clinical effect and adjust therapy based on clinical response.
modafinil
modafinil will increase the level or effect of pantoprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown. Net effect on
pantoprazole actions unknown due to opposing effects of CYP450 enzymes;
monitor
oxcarbazepine
oxcarbazepine will increase the level or effect of pantoprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown. Unclear on net effect
of pantoprazole action due to opposing effects by CYP450 enzymes; monitor
pentobarbital
pentobarbital will decrease the level or effect of pantoprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
phenobarbital
phenobarbital will decrease the level or effect of pantoprazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.
phytoestrogens
pantoprazole decreases levels of phytoestrogens by inhibition of GI absorption.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Minor/Significance Unknown.
ponatinib
pantoprazole decreases levels of ponatinib by increasing gastric pH. Applies only to
oral form of both agents. Minor/Significance Unknown.
thyroid desiccated
pantoprazole decreases levels of thyroid desiccated by increasing gastric pH.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Minor/Significance Unknown. Conflicting
evidence regarding this interaction exists.
6/22/26, 5:30 PM
Protonix (pantoprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/protonix-pantoprazole-342001
18/26

Adverse Effects
1-10%
Headache (>4%)
Abdominal pain (4%)
Facial edema (<4%)
Generalized edema (<2%)
Chest pain (4%)
Diarrhea (4%)
Constipation (<4%)
Pruritus (4%)
Rash (4%)
Flatulence (<4%)
Hyperglycemia (1%)
Nausea (1%)
Vomiting (>4%)
Photosensitivity (<2%)
Frequency Not Defined
Angioedema
Atrophic gastritis
Anterior ischemic optic neuropathy
Hepatocellular damage leading to hepatic failure
Interstitial nephritis
Pancreatitis
Pancytopenia
Rhabdomyolysis
Risk of anaphylaxis
Stevens-Johnson syndrome
Fatal toxic epidermal necrolysis
Erythema multiforme
Postmarketing Reports
6/22/26, 5:30 PM
Protonix (pantoprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/protonix-pantoprazole-342001
19/26

Asthenia, fatigue, malaise
Hepatocellular damage leading to jaundice and hepatic failure
Anaphylaxis (including anaphylactic shock)
Agranulocytosis, pancytopenia
Taste disorders (ageusia, dysgeusia)
Investigations: Weight changes
Hyponatremia, hypomagnesemia
Rhabdomyolysis, bone fracture
Hallucination, confusion, insomnia, somnolence
Interstitial nephritis
Severe dermatologic reactions (some fatal), including erythema multiforme, Stevens-
Johnson syndrome, and toxic epidermal necrolysis (some fatal), as well as angioedema
(Quincke edema), drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS),
acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP)
Cutaneous and systemic lupus erythematosus
Cyanocobalamin (vitamin B-12) deficiency
Clostridium difficile-associated diarrhea
Fundic gland polyps
Acute tubulointerstitial nephritis
Hypocalcemia
Erectile dysfunction
Warnings
Contraindications
Hypersensitivity to pantoprazole or other proton pump inhibitors (PPIs)
Concomitant administration with rilpivirine containing products
Cautions
PPIs are possibly associated with increased incidence of Clostridium difficile-associated
diarrhea (CDAD); consider diagnosis of CDAD for patients taking PPIs who have diarrhea
that does not improve
Severe hepatic impairment
Cutaneous lupus erythematosus (CLE) and systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) reported
with PPIs; avoid using for longer than medically indicated; discontinue if signs or
6/22/26, 5:30 PM
Protonix (pantoprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/protonix-pantoprazole-342001
20/26

symptoms consistent with CLE or SLE are observed and refer patient to specialist; most
patients improve with discontinuation of PPI alone in 4-12 weeks; serological testing
(e.g. ANA) may be positive and elevated serological test results may take longer to
resolve than clinical manifestations
Severe cutaneous adverse reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS) and
toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms
(DRESS), and acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP) reported in
association with use of PPIs; discontinue therapy at first signs or symptoms of severe
cutaneous adverse reactions or other signs of hypersensitivity and consider further
evaluation
Published observational studies suggest that PPI therapy may be associated with an
increased risk for osteoporosis-related fractures of the hip, wrist, or spine, particularly
with prolonged (>1 year), high-dose therapy
Decreased gastric acidity increases serum chromogranin A (CgA) levels and may cause
false-positive diagnostic results for neuroendocrine tumors; temporarily discontinue PPIs
before assessing CgA levels
PPIs may decrease the efficacy of clopidogrel by reducing the formation of the active
metabolite
Therapy increases risk of Salmonella, Campylobacter, and other infections
Infusion related reactions including thrombophlebitis and hypersensitivity reported
Daily long-term use (e.g., longer than 3 years) may lead to malabsorption or a deficiency
of cyanocobalamin
Acute interstitial nephritis reported in patients taking proton pump inhibitors
Relief of symptoms does not eliminate the possibility of a gastric malignancy; consider
additional follow-up and diagnostic testing in adult patients who have suboptimal
response or early symptomatic relapse after completing treatment with a PPI
Risk of salmonella and campylobacter infections increased with use of proton pump
inhibitors
May elevate and/or prolong serum concentrations of methotrexate and/or its metabolite
when administered concomitantly with PPIs, possibly leading to toxicity; consider a
temporary withdrawal of PPI therapy with high dose methotrexate administration
PPI therapy is associated with increased risk of fundic gland polyp; risk increases with
long-term use >1 year; patient may be asymptomatic; problem usually identified
incidentally on endoscopy; use shortest duration of therapy appropriate to condition
being treated
Acute tubulointerstitial nephritis (TIN) reported in patients taking PPIs; may occur at any
point during PPI therapy; patients may present with varying signs and symptoms from
symptomatic hypersensitivity reactions to non-specific symptoms of decreased renal
function (eg, malaise, nausea, anorexia); in reported case series, some patients were
diagnosed on biopsy and in absence of extra-renal manifestations (eg, fever, rash or
arthralgia); discontinue therapy and evaluate patients with suspected acute TIN
Hypomagnesemia and mineral metabolism
6/22/26, 5:30 PM
Protonix (pantoprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/protonix-pantoprazole-342001
21/26

Hypomagnesemia may occur with prolonged use (>1 year); adverse effects may
result, including tetany, arrhythmias, and seizures; in 25% of cases reviewed,
magnesium supplementation alone did not improve low serum magnesium levels,
and the PPI had to be discontinued; consider monitoring magnesium levels prior to
initiation of PPI treatment and periodically
Hypomagnesemia may lead to hypocalcemia and/or hypokalemia and may
exacerbate underlying hypocalcemia in at-risk patients; in most patients, treatment
of hypomagnesemia required magnesium replacement and discontinuation of the
PPI
Consider monitoring magnesium and calcium levels prior to initiation of therapy and
periodically while on treatment in patients with a preexisting risk of hypocalcemia
(eg, hypoparathyroidism); supplement with magnesium and/or calcium as
necessary. If hypocalcemia is refractory to treatment, consider discontinuing the PPI
Pregnancy & Lactation
Pregnancy
There are no adequate and well-controlled studies in pregnant women; advise pregnant
women of the potential risk of fetal harm; drug should be used during pregnancy only if
potential benefit justifies potential risk to fetus
Lactation
Pantoprazole and metabolites are excreted in milk of rats. Pantoprazole excretion in
human milk has been detected in a study of a single nursing mother after a single 40 mg
oral dose of pantoprazole sodium; clinical relevance of this finding not known; many
drugs excreted in human milk have potential for serious adverse reactions in nursing
infants; based on potential for tumorigenicity shown for pantoprazole sodium in rodent
carcinogenicity studies, a decision should be made whether to discontinue nursing or to
discontinue drug, taking into account benefit of drug to mother
Pregnancy Categories
A: Generally acceptable. Controlled studies in pregnant women show no evidence of
fetal risk.
B: May be acceptable. Either animal studies show no risk but human studies not available
or animal studies showed minor risks and human studies done and showed no risk.
C: Use with caution if benefits outweigh risks. Animal studies show risk and human
studies not available or neither animal nor human studies done.
D: Use in LIFE-THREATENING emergencies when no safer drug available. Positive
evidence of human fetal risk.
X: Do not use in pregnancy. Risks involved outweigh potential benefits. Safer alternatives
exist.
NA: Information not available.
6/22/26, 5:30 PM
Protonix (pantoprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/protonix-pantoprazole-342001
22/26

Pharmacology
Mechanism of Action
PPI; binds to H+/K+-exchanging ATPase (proton pump) in gastric parietal cells, resulting
in blockage of acid secretion
Absorption
Bioavailability: 77% (PO; neither food nor antacid alters bioavailability)
Onset (PO PUD): 24 hr (initial response)
Duration (PO at steady state): 7 days (PUD)
Peak plasma time: 2.8 hr (PO); at end of infusion (IV)
Distribution
Protein bound: 98%
Vd: 11-24 L
Metabolism
Metabolized extensively by hepatic P450 enzyme CYP2C19; second pathway through
CYP3A4
Slow metabolizers (3% of Caucasians and African Americans) are deficient in CPY2C19
enzyme system; plasma concentration can increase by 5-fold or more in comparison with
that found in persons who have the enzyme
Metabolites: Desmethylpantoprazole sulfate conjugate (activity unknown)
Elimination
Half-life: 1 hr; increased to 3.5-10 hr with CYP2C19 deficiency
Dialyzable: No
Renal clearance: 0.1 L/hr/kg
Total body clearance: 7.6-14 L/hr
Excretion: Urine (71%); feces (18%)
Administration
Oral Administration
Switch patients from IV to PO as soon as able to swallow
Tablets
May take with or without food
6/22/26, 5:30 PM
Protonix (pantoprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/protonix-pantoprazole-342001
23/26

Concomitant administration of antacids does not affect tablet absorption
Swallow tablet whole; do not split, crush, or chew
Oral suspension
Administer ~30 minutes before meals
Do not split, crush, or chew
Oral suspension packet is a fixed dose and cannot be divided to make a smaller
dose
Administer suspension in apple juice or applesauce; do not administer in water,
other liquids, or foods
NG tube
For patients with a nasogastric (NG) or gastrostomy tube, oral suspension can
be administered with apple juice
Missed dose
Take a missed dose as soon as possible
If it is almost time for the next dose, skip missed dose and take the next dose at the
regular scheduled time
Do not take 2 doses at the same time
IV Incompatibilities
Y-site: Midazolam, zinc solutions
IV Compatibilities
Y-site: D5W, 0.9% NaCl, or LR
IV Preparation
Injectable solution
Thaw frozen container at room temperature 20-25ºC (68-77ºF) or under
refrigeration at 2-8ºC (36-46ºF)
Product should not be thawed by immersion in water baths or by microwave
irradiation
Do not force thaw
No further dilution necessary
Check for minute leaks by squeezing container firmly; if leaks detected, discard
solution as sterility may be impaired
Do not add supplementary medication
Inspect thawed solution visually for particulate matter before and during
administration
Thawed solution is expected to range from colorless to yellow over time
6/22/26, 5:30 PM
Protonix (pantoprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/protonix-pantoprazole-342001
24/26

Powder for reconstitution (GERD)
Reconstitute with 10 mL 0.9% NaCl
Dilute reconstituted solution to final concentration
Pediatric patients aged 3 months to <1 year: Dilute with 21 mL 0.9% NaCl to
final concentration of ~1.3 mg/mL
Adults and pediatric patients aged 1-17 years: Dilute with 100 mL D5W or
0.9% NaCl to final concentration of ~0.4 mg/mL
Powder for reconstitution (ZE)
15-min infusion: Reconstitute each vial with 10 mL 0.9% NaCl, THEN
Combine 2 vials and further dilute with 80 mL D5W, 0.9% NaCl, or LR to total
volume of 100 mL (concentration 0.8 mg/mL)
2-min injection: Reconstitute with 10 mL 0.9% NaCl to final concentration of 4
mg/mL
IV Administration
Infuse IV over ~15 minutes
Administer IV through a dedicated line or through a Y-site
Flush IV line before and after administration with either D5W or 0.9% NaCl
When administered through a Y-site, immediately stop use if precipitation or
discoloration occurs
Storage
Tablets or granules for oral suspension
Store at 20-25ºC (68-77ºF); excursions permitted to 15-30ºC (59-86ºF)
Injection, solution
Freeze at or below -20ºC (-4ºF)
Protect from light
Thawed solution
Refrigerate at 2-8ºC (36-46ºF) for up to 21 days, OR
Room temperature at 20-25ºC (68-77ºF) for up to 48 hr
Protect from light
Do not refreeze once thawed
Injection, powder for reconstitution
Refrigerate unopened vials at 2-8°C (36-46°F); protect from light
Reconstituted solution: Store for up to 6 hr at room temperature before further
dilution
6/22/26, 5:30 PM
Protonix (pantoprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/protonix-pantoprazole-342001
25/26

Diluted solution: Store for up to 24 hr at room temperature before administration
Do not freeze reconstituted or diluted solution
Formulary
Adding plans allows you to compare formulary status to other drugs in the same class.
Formulary information is available for health plans only in the United States.
Medscape prescription drug monographs are based on FDA-approved labeling information, unless otherwise noted,
combined with additional data derived from primary medical literature.
6/22/26, 5:30 PM
Protonix (pantoprazole) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/protonix-pantoprazole-342001
26/26