6/22/26, 8:11 PM Zyloprim, Aloprim (allopurinol) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
This site is intended for healthcare professionals

allopurinol (Rx)
Brand and Other Names: Zyloprim, Aloprim
Classes: Xanthine Oxidase Inhibitors; Antigout Agents

Dosing & Uses

ADULT
Dosage Forms & Strengths

tablet

100mg

200mg

300mg

powder for injection

500mg/vial

Gout

Mild: 100 mg/day PO initially; increased weekly to 200-300 mg/day

Moderate to severe: 100 mg/day PO initially; increased weekly to 400-600 mg/day

Antineoplastic-Induced Hyperuricemia

PO: 600-800 mg divided q8-12hr, starting 1-2 days before chemotherapy

IV: 200-400 mg/m²/day; not to exceed 600 mg/m²/day; may administer as single infusion
or in equally divided doses at 6, 8, 12 hr intervals beginning 1-2 days before
chemotherapy 

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/zyloprim-aloprim-allopurinol-342811 1/12



6/22/26, 8:11 PM Zyloprim, Aloprim (allopurinol) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Dosing Considerations

Minimum PO dosage: 100-200 mg/day

Maximum PO dosage: 800 mg/day

Dosing Modifications

Renal impairment

CrCl 10-20 mL/min: 200 mg/day

CrCl 3-10 mL/min: 100 mg/day

CrCl <3 mL/min: 100 mg/day at extended intervals

PEDIATRIC
Dosage Forms & Strengths

tablet

100mg

200mg

300mg

powder for injection

500mg/vial

Hyperuricemia

10 mg/kg/day PO divided q12hr; not to exceed 600 mg/day 

Antineoplastic-Induced Hyperuricemia

PO (<6 years): 150 mg/day divided q8hr

PO (6-10 years): 300 mg/day in single daily dose or divided q8hr

PO (>10 years): 600-800 mg/day, starting 1-2 days before chemotherapy

IV: 200 mg/m²/day initially, starting 1-2 days before chemotherapy 

Interactions

Interaction Checker

Enter a drug name to check for any interactions. Type a drug, OTC, or herbal  and allopurinol
https://reference.medscape.com/drug/zyloprim-aloprim-allopurinol-342811 2/12



6/22/26, 8:11 PM Zyloprim, Aloprim (allopurinol) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
No Interactions Found
Interactions Found
Contraindicated

Serious

Significant - Monitor Closely

Minor

All Interactions Sort By: Severity
Contraindicated (0)

Serious (12)

azathioprine
allopurinol increases levels of azathioprine by decreasing metabolism. Avoid or Use
Alternate Drug. Increased risk of bone marrow toxicity.

benazepril
benazepril increases toxicity of allopurinol by unspecified interaction mechanism.
Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. May increase risk for allergic or hypersensitivity
reactions to allopurinol. Monitor for symptoms of hypersensitivity reactions if both
drugs must be used together.

captopril
captopril, allopurinol. Mechanism: unknown. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Risk of
anaphylaxis, Stevens Johnson syndrome.

captopril increases toxicity of allopurinol by Mechanism: unspecified interaction
mechanism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. May increase risk for allergic or
hypersensitivity reactions to allopurinol Monitor for symptoms of hypersensitivty
reactions if both drugs must be used together.

didanosine
allopurinol increases levels of didanosine by unknown mechanism. Contraindicated.

enalapril
enalapril, allopurinol. Mechanism: unknown. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Risk of
anaphylaxis, Stevens Johnson syndrome.

perindopril
perindopril, allopurinol. Mechanism: unknown. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Risk of
anaphylaxis, Stevens Johnson syndrome.

pexidartinib
allopurinol and pexidartinib both increase Other (see comment). Avoid or Use
Alternate Drug. Pexidartinib can cause hepatotoxicity. Avoid coadministration of
pexidartinib with other products know to cause hepatoxicity.

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/zyloprim-aloprim-allopurinol-342811 3/12



6/22/26, 8:11 PM Zyloprim, Aloprim (allopurinol) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

pretomanid
allopurinol, pretomanid. Either increases toxicity of the other by Other (see
comment). Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Comment: Pretomanid regimen associated
with hepatotoxicity. Avoid alcohol and hepatotoxic agents, including herbal
supplements and drugs other than bedaquiline and linezolid.

protamine
allopurinol increases effects of protamine by decreasing metabolism. Avoid or Use
Alternate Drug.

ropeginterferon alfa 2b
ropeginterferon alfa 2b, allopurinol. Either increases toxicity of the other by Other
(see comment). Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Comment: Myelosuppressive agents
can produce additive myelosuppression. Avoid use and monitor patients receiving
the combination for effects of excessive myelosuppression.

theophylline
allopurinol increases levels of theophylline by decreasing metabolism. Avoid or Use
Alternate Drug.

warfarin
allopurinol increases effects of warfarin by anticoagulation. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug.

Monitor Closely (17)

acalabrutinib
acalabrutinib, allopurinol. Either increases toxicity of the other by pharmacodynamic
synergism. Use Caution/Monitor. Coadministration may increase risk of
myelosuppressive effects.

aluminum hydroxide
aluminum hydroxide decreases levels of allopurinol by inhibition of GI absorption.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor. Separate by 2 hours.

amoxicillin
allopurinol decreases toxicity of amoxicillin by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: Allopurinol may increase potential for allergic or
hypersensitivity reactions to amoxicillin.

bendamustine
allopurinol increases levels of bendamustine by affecting hepatic enzyme CYP1A2
metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Consider alternate therapy due to risk of
increased bendamustine exposure and adverse effects. In vitro, bendamustine is a
CYP1A2 substrate.

calcium carbonate
calcium carbonate decreases levels of allopurinol by inhibition of GI absorption.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor. Separate by 2 hours.

cyclophosphamide

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/zyloprim-aloprim-allopurinol-342811 4/12



6/22/26, 8:11 PM Zyloprim, Aloprim (allopurinol) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

allopurinol increases toxicity of cyclophosphamide by decreasing metabolism. Use
Caution/Monitor.

dichlorphenamide
dichlorphenamide and allopurinol both decrease serum potassium. Use
Caution/Monitor.

dichlorphenamide, allopurinol. Either increases toxicity of the other by
pharmacodynamic synergism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Both drugs can
cause metabolic acidosis.

ethambutol
ethambutol decreases effects of allopurinol by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: Hyperuricemia reported with ethambutol and
precipitation of gout reported; uric acid lowering agents may be require dosage
adjustment.

hydroxyurea
allopurinol, hydroxyurea. Other (see comment). Use Caution/Monitor. Comment:
Combination may increase risk of myelosuppression.

mercaptopurine
allopurinol increases levels of mercaptopurine by decreasing metabolism. Use
Caution/Monitor. Potential for increased myelosuppression.

methotrexate
allopurinol decreases effects of methotrexate by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: Combination may increase risk of myelosuppression.

mipomersen
mipomersen, allopurinol. Either increases toxicity of the other by Other (see
comment). Use Caution/Monitor. Comment: Both drugs have potential to increase
hepatic enzymes; monitor LFTs.

sodium bicarbonate
sodium bicarbonate decreases levels of allopurinol by inhibition of GI absorption.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor. Separate by 2 hours.

sodium citrate/citric acid
sodium citrate/citric acid decreases levels of allopurinol by inhibition of GI
absorption. Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor. Separate
by 2 hours.

thioguanine
allopurinol, thioguanine. unknown mechanism. Use Caution/Monitor. Potential for
increased myelosuppression.

valoctocogene roxaparvovec
allopurinol and valoctocogene roxaparvovec both increase Other (see comment).
Use Caution/Monitor. Medications that may cause hepatotoxicity when combined
with valoctogene roxaparvovec may potentiate the risk of elevated liver enzymes.

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/zyloprim-aloprim-allopurinol-342811 5/12



6/22/26, 8:11 PM Zyloprim, Aloprim (allopurinol) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Closely monitor these medications and consider alternative medications in case of
potential drug interactions.

xanomeline/trospium
allopurinol, xanomeline/trospium. Either increases levels of the other by decreasing
elimination. Use Caution/Monitor. Coadministration of trospium with other drugs
eliminated by active tubular secretion may increase plasma concentrations of
trospium and/or the concomitantly used drug owing to competition for this
elimination pathway. Monitor for increased frequency and/or severity of adverse
reactions.

Minor (3)

ampicillin
ampicillin, allopurinol. Mechanism: unknown. Minor/Significance Unknown.
Increased incidence of rash.

cyclosporine
allopurinol increases levels of cyclosporine by unknown mechanism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

tacrolimus
allopurinol increases levels of tacrolimus by unknown mechanism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

Adverse Effects

1-10%

Rash (1.5%)

Nausea (1.3%)

Renal failure (1.2%)

Vomiting (1.2%)

Frequency Not Defined

Amblyopia

Arthralgias

Blood dyscrasias

Bronchospasm

Cardiovascular abnormalities

Cataracts

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/zyloprim-aloprim-allopurinol-342811 6/12



6/22/26, 8:11 PM Zyloprim, Aloprim (allopurinol) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Confusion

Decrease in libido

Dizziness

Ecchymosis

Electrolyte abnormalities

Epistaxis

Foot drop

Hematuria

Hepatotoxicity

Hypotonia

Iritis

Kidney function abnormality

Macular retinitis

Malaise

Neuritis

Pharyngitis

Pruritus

Skin edema

Stevens-Johnson syndrome

Sweating

Tinnitus

Warnings

Contraindications

Patients with a history of severe reaction to any formulation of this drug

Cautions

Discontinue at first sign of allergic reactions (first sign of rash, vasculitis, epidermal
necrolysis or Stevens-Johnson syndrome, drug rash with eosinophilia and systemic
symptoms (DRESS) and/or generalized vasculitis, irreversible hepatotoxicity)

The HLA-B*58:01 allele is a genetic marker for severe skin reactions indicative of
hypersensitivity to allopurinol; patients who carry the HLA-B*58:01 allele are at a higher
risk of allopurinol hypersensitivity syndrome (AHS); however, hypersensitivity reactions

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/zyloprim-aloprim-allopurinol-342811 7/12



6/22/26, 8:11 PM Zyloprim, Aloprim (allopurinol) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

reported in patients who do not carry this allele; frequency of this allele is higher in
individuals of African, Asian (e.g., Han Chinese, Korean, Thai), and Native
Hawaiian/Pacific Islander ancestry; prior to starting therapy, consider testing for the
HLA-B*58:01 allele in genetically at-risk populations; therapy not recommended in
HLA-B*58:01 positive patients unless benefits clearly outweigh risks

Myelosuppression reported; use caution when administering other drugs known to cause
myelosuppression; cytopenias have occurred as early as 6 weeks up to 6 years after
initiation of therapy; concomitant use with cytotoxic drugs associated with
myelosuppression may increase risk of myelosuppression; monitor blood counts more
frequently when cytotoxic drugs are used concomitantly

Cases of reversible clinical hepatotoxicity have occurred in patients taking this
medication, and in some patients, asymptomatic rises in serum alkaline phosphatase or
serum transaminase have been observed; if anorexia, weight loss, or pruritus develop in
patients on therapy, evaluate liver enzymes; in patients with pre-existing liver disease,
monitor liver enzymes periodically; discontinue therapy in patients with elevated liver
enzymes

Not for treatment of asymptomatic hyperuricemia

Risk of hypersensitivity increased in patients treated with angiotensin-converting
emzyme (ACE) inhibitors

When taken with amoxicillin or ampicillin, may increase risk of skin rash

During concomitant treatment, reduce dosages of azathioprine and mercaptopurine to
25-33% of usual

Occurrence of hypersensitivity reactions may be increased in patients with renal
impairment, especially in patients who are receiving thiazide diuretics; reduce dose in
patients with impaired renal function

Risk of hypersensitivity may increase with concomitant administration of thiazides

Maintain fluid intake necessary to yield urine output of at least 2 L/day in adults

Gout flares

Gout flares have been reported during initiation of treatment, even when normal or
subnormal serum uric acid levels have been attained due to mobilization of urates
from tissue deposits

Even with adequate therapy, it may require several months to deplete the uric acid
pool sufficiently to achieve control of the flares; the flares typically become shorter
and less severe after several months of therapy

In order to prevent gout flares when treatment initiated, concurrent prophylactic
treatment with colchicine or an anti-inflammatory agent is recommended

Advise patients to continue therapy and prophylactic treatment even if gout flares
occur, as it may take months to achieve control of gout flares

Nephrotoxicity

Treatment may result in acute kidney injury due to formation of xanthine calculi or
due to precipitation of urates in patients receiving concomitant uricosuric agents

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/zyloprim-aloprim-allopurinol-342811 8/12



6/22/26, 8:11 PM Zyloprim, Aloprim (allopurinol) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Patients with pre-existing kidney disease, including chronic kidney disease or
history of kidney stones, may be at increased risk for worsening of kidney function
or acute kidney injury due to xanthine calculi while receiving treatment

In patients receiving therapy for the management of gout or the management of
recurrent calcium oxalate calculi, monitor kidney function frequently during the
early stages of allopurinol administration

Maintain fluid intake sufficient to yield a urinary output of at least 2 liters per day of
neutral or, preferably, slightly alkaline urine to avoid the possibility of formation of
xanthine calculi and help prevent renal precipitation of urates in patients receiving
concomitant uricosuric agents

In patients receiving this medication for the management of tumor lysis syndrome,
monitor kidney function at least daily during the early stages of allopurinol
administration

Maintain fluid intake sufficient to yield a urinary output of at least 2 liters per day in
adults and at least 2 liters/m2/day (or at least 100 mL/m2/hour) in pediatric patients

Pregnancy & Lactation

Pregnancy

Available limited published data on allopurinol use in pregnant women do not
demonstrate a clear pattern or increase in frequency of adverse developmental
outcomes. Among approximately 50 pregnancies described in published literature, 2
infants with major congenital malformations have been reported with following
maternal allopurinol exposure. Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus

Animal data

Based on findings in animals, this drug may cause fetal harm when administered to
a pregnant woman; adverse developmental outcomes described in exposed
animals; this drug and its metabolite oxypurinol shown to cross placenta following
administration of maternal allopurinol

Reproductive studies performed in rats and rabbits at doses up to twenty times
usual human dose (5 mg/kg per day) concluded that there was no impaired fertility
or harm to fetus due to allopurinol; there is a published report of a study in
pregnant mice given 50 or 100 mg/kg allopurinol intraperitoneally on gestation
days 10 or 13; there were increased numbers of dead fetuses in dams given 100
mg/kg allopurinol but not in those given 50 mg/kg

There were increased numbers of external malformations in fetuses at both doses
of allopurinol on gestation day 10 and increased numbers of skeletal malformations
in fetuses at both doses on gestation day 13; it cannot be determined whether this
represented a fetal effect or an effect secondary to maternal toxicity; there are,
however, no adequate or well controlled studies in pregnant women; because
animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response, this drug
should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed

Lactation

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/zyloprim-aloprim-allopurinol-342811 9/12



6/22/26, 8:11 PM Zyloprim, Aloprim (allopurinol) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Allopurinol and oxypurinol are present in human milk; based on information from a
single case report, allopurinol and its active metabolite, oxypurinol, were detected in the
milk of a mother at five weeks postpartum at an estimated relative infant dose of 0.14
and 0.2 mg/kg of allopurinol and between 7.2 to 8 mg/kg of oxypurinol daily

There was no report of effects of allopurinol on the breastfed infant or on milk
production; because of potential for serious adverse reactions in a breastfed child, advise
women not to breastfeed during treatments with this drug and for one week after last
dose

Pregnancy Categories

A: Generally acceptable. Controlled studies in pregnant women show no evidence of
fetal risk.

B: May be acceptable. Either animal studies show no risk but human studies not available
or animal studies showed minor risks and human studies done and showed no risk.

C: Use with caution if benefits outweigh risks. Animal studies show risk and human
studies not available or neither animal nor human studies done.

D: Use in LIFE-THREATENING emergencies when no safer drug available. Positive
evidence of human fetal risk.

X: Do not use in pregnancy. Risks involved outweigh potential benefits. Safer alternatives
exist.

NA: Information not available.

Pharmacology

Mechanism of Action

Xanthine oxidase inhibitor; inhibits conversion of hypoxanthine to xanthine to uric acid;
decreases production of uric acid without disrupting synthesis of vital purines

Pharmacokinetics

Bioavailability: 49-53%

Onset: 2-3 days

Peak plasma time: 0.5-2 hr

Time to peak effect: 7-14 days

Distribution

Protein bound: <1%

Vd: 1.6-2.4 L/kg

Metabolism

Metabolized in liver

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/zyloprim-aloprim-allopurinol-342811 10/12



6/22/26, 8:11 PM Zyloprim, Aloprim (allopurinol) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Metabolites: Oxypurinol (active), allopurinol riboside (activity unknown)

Elimination

Half-life: Parent drug, 1-3 hr; active metabolite, 15-20 hr

Dialyzable: Yes (both hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis)

Renal clearance: 30 mL/min

Total body clearance: 16 mL/min/kg

Excretion: Urine (80%), feces (10-20%)

Administration

IV Compatibilities

Y-site (partial list): Acyclovir, calcium gluconate, cefazolin, ceftriaxone, carboplatin,
cisplatin, cyclophosphamide, dactinomycin, doxorubicin liposomal, fluorouracil,
ifosfamide, mesna, metronidazole, mitoxantrone, morphine sulfate, potassium chloride,
thiotepa, vancomycin

IV Incompatibities

Y-site: Amikacin, amphotericin B, carmustine, cefotaxime, chlorpromazine, cimetidine,
clindamycin, cytarabine, dacarbazine, daunorubicin, diphenhydramine, doxorubicin,
doxycycline, droperidol, floxuridine, gentamicin, haloperidol, hydroxyzine, idarubicin,
imipenem-cilastatin, mechlorethamine, meperidine, methylprednisolone sodium
succinate, metoclopramide, minocycline, nalbuphine, netilmicin, ondansetron,
prochlorperazine, promethazine, sodium bicarbonate, streptozocin, tobramycin,
vinorelbine

IV Preparation

Reconstitute with 25 mL SWI

Dilute to desired concentration with NS or D5W; do not use sodium bicarbonate-
containing solutions; final concentration of ≤6 mg/mL is recommended

Store solution at 20-25°C (do not refrigerate), and use within 10 hours after
reconstitution

IV Administration

In both adults and children, daily dose can be given as single infusion or in equally
divided infusions q6hr, q8hr, or q12hr

Whenever possible, administration should be initiated 1-2 days before start of
chemotherapy known to cause tumor cell lysis (including adrenocorticosteroids)

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/zyloprim-aloprim-allopurinol-342811 11/12



6/22/26, 8:11 PM Zyloprim, Aloprim (allopurinol) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Formulary

Adding plans allows you to compare formulary status to other drugs in the same class.

Formulary information is available for health plans only in the United States.

Medscape prescription drug monographs are based on FDA-approved labeling information, unless otherwise noted,
combined with additional data derived from primary medical literature.

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/zyloprim-aloprim-allopurinol-342811 12/12