6/22/26, 4:53 PM Trileptal, Oxtellar XR (oxcarbazepine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
This site is intended for healthcare professionals

oxcarbazepine (Rx)
Brand and Other Names: Trileptal, Oxtellar XR
Classes: Anticonvulsants, Other

Dosing & Uses

ADULT
Dosage Forms & Strengths

tablet, film-coated (Trileptal, generic)

150mg

300mg

600mg

tablet, extended-release (Oxtellar XR)

150mg

300mg

600mg

oral suspension (Trileptal, generic)

300mg/5mL

Partial Seizures

Adjunctive treatment

Trileptal: 300 mg PO q12hr initially; may increase at weekly intervals by 600
mg/day up to 1200 mg/day

Oxtellar XR: 600 mg PO daily initially; may increase at weekly intervals by 600
mg/day increments to target dosage range of 1200-2400 mg daily

Monotherapy (if converting from other AED)

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/trileptal-oxtellar-xr-oxcarbazepine-343014 1/22



6/22/26, 4:53 PM Trileptal, Oxtellar XR (oxcarbazepine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Initial: 300 mg PO q12hr; increase by 600 mg/day qWeek up to 2400 mg/day

Reduce and withdraw concomitant antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) over 3-6 weeks while
reaching maximum oxcarbazepine dose in 2-4 weeks

Monotherapy (if AED naive)

Initial: 300 mg PO q12hr; increase by 300 mg/day every 3 days to 1200 mg/day
divided q12hr

Bipolar Disorder (Off-label)

300 mg/day PO initially; may titrate to 1800-2400 mg/day maximum

Diabetic Neuropathy (Off-label)

150-300 mg/day PO initially; may increase to 900-1200 mg/day (general
recommendation)

Doses up to 1800 mg/day studied, with positive results

Neuralgia/Neuropathy (Off-label)

300 mg PO q8-12hr initially; may adjust dose to 400-2000 mg divided q8-12hr
(maximum tolerated or effective dose)

Dosage Modifications

Strong CYP3A4 inducers or UGT inducers

Strong CYP3A4 inducers and/or UGT inducers decrease systemic exposure to 10-
monohydroxy derivative (MHD), the active metabolite

Dosage adjustment of oxcarbazepine may be required after initiation, dosage
modification, or discontinuation of such induce

Oxtellar XR: Initiate at 900 mg daily

Renal impairment

There is a linear correlation between creatinine clearance (CrCl) and the renal
clearance of MHD

Severe (CrCl <30 mL/min)
Oxtellar XR: Administer lower starting dosage and increase, if necessary, at a
slower than usual rate until the desired clinical response is achieved

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/trileptal-oxtellar-xr-oxcarbazepine-343014 2/22



6/22/26, 4:53 PM Trileptal, Oxtellar XR (oxcarbazepine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Trileptal: Decrease usual starting dose by 50% and increase slowly to achieve
desired clinical response

ESRD: Use immediate-release oxcarbazepine instead of long-acting

Hepatic impairment

Mild-to-moderate: No dose adjustment required

Severe: Not evaluated, and therefore is not recommended

Dosing Considerations

Conversion from immediate release to Oxtellar XR: Higher doses of Oxtellar XR may be
required

PEDIATRIC
Dosage Forms & Strengths

tablet, film-coated (Trileptal, generic)

150mg

300mg

600mg

tablet, extended-release (Oxtellar XR)

150mg

300mg

600mg

oral suspension (Trileptal, generic)

300mg/5mL

Partial Seizures (Adjunctive Treatment)

Trileptal (age 2-4 years)

Initial: 8-10 mg/kg/day PO divided q12hr; not to exceed 600 mg/day 

<20 kg: May consider starting with 16-20 mg/kg/day; may titrate to higher dose
over 2-4 weeks; not to exceed 60 mg/kg/day

Trileptal (age 4-16 years)

Initial: 8-10 mg/kg/day PO divided q12hr; not to exceed 600 mg/day 

Target maintenance dose: May titrate to higher dose over 2 weeks to reach the
following dosage ranges

20-29 kg: 450 mg PO q12hr

29.1-39 kg: 600 mg PO q12hr

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/trileptal-oxtellar-xr-oxcarbazepine-343014 3/22



6/22/26, 4:53 PM Trileptal, Oxtellar XR (oxcarbazepine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

>39 kg: 900 mg PO q12hr

Oxtellar XR (age 6-17 years)

Initial: 8-10 mg/kg PO daily; not to exceed 600 mg/day in the first week 

Target maintenance dose
May titrate to higher dose at weekly intervals in 8-10 mg/kg/day increments
(not to exceed 600 mg) to reach following target maintenance dosage ranges
over 2-3 weeks

20-29 kg: 900 mg PO daily

>29-39 kg: 1200 mg PO daily

>39 kg: 1800 mg PO daily

Partial Seizures (Monotherapy)

Trileptal (age 4-16 years)

Conversion to monotherapy in patients receiving concomitant AEDs: 8-10
mg/kg/day PO divided q12hr intially, while simultaneously reducing concomitant
AEDs dose(s) over 3-6 weeks; may increase Triletpa dose qWeek by maximum
increment of 10 mg/kg/day 

AED-naive: Initial 8-10 mg/kg/day PO divided q12hr; may increase every 3 days by
5 mg/kg/day

Target maintenance dose
20-24.99 kg: 600-900 mg/day

25-34.99 kg: 900-1200 mg/day

35-44.99 kg: 900-1500 mg/day

45-49.99 kg: 1200-1500 mg/day

50-59.99 kg: 1200-1800 mg/day

60-69.99 kg: 1200-2100 mg/day

70 kg: 1500-2100 mg/day

Oxtellar XR (age 6-17 years)

Initial: 8-10 mg/kg PO daily; not to exceed 600 mg/day in first week 

Target maintenance dose
May titrate to higher dose at weekly intervals in 8-10 mg/kg/day increments
(not to exceed 600 mg) to reach following target maintenance dosage ranges
over 2-3 weeks

20-29 kg: 900 mg PO daily

>29-39 kg: 1200 mg PO daily

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/trileptal-oxtellar-xr-oxcarbazepine-343014 4/22



6/22/26, 4:53 PM Trileptal, Oxtellar XR (oxcarbazepine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

>39 kg: 1800 mg PO daily

Dosage Modifications

Strong CYP3A4 inducers or UGT inducers

Strong CYP3A4 inducers and/or UGT inducers decrease systemic exposure to 10-
monohydroxy derivative (MHD), the active metabolite

Dosage adjustment of oxcarbazepine may be required after initiation, dosage
modification, or discontinuation

Oxtellar XR: Initiate at 12-15 mg/kg daily (not to exceed 900 mg/day in first week)

Renal impairment

There is a linear correlation between creatinine clearance and the renal clearance of
MHD (active metabolite)

Recommendations for children with renal impairment are not available

Hepatic impairment

Mild to moderate: No dose adjustment required

Severe: Unknown if dosage adjustment necessary for immediate release dosage
form; extended release, not recommended

Dosing Considerations

Conversion from immediate-release to Oxtellar XR: Higher doses of Oxtellar XR may be
required

GERIATRIC
For extended-release dosage administration consider initial dose of 300-450 mg/day

May increase at weekly intervals to desired effect; not to exceed 2400 mg/day

Interactions

Interaction Checker

Enter a drug name to check for any interactions. Type a drug, OTC, or herbal  and
oxcarbazepine
No Interactions Found
Interactions Found
Contraindicated

Serious

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/trileptal-oxtellar-xr-oxcarbazepine-343014 5/22



6/22/26, 4:53 PM Trileptal, Oxtellar XR (oxcarbazepine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Significant - Monitor Closely

Minor

All Interactions Sort By: Severity
Contraindicated (9)

dienogest/estradiol valerate
oxcarbazepine will decrease the level or effect of dienogest/estradiol valerate by
affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated. Women
should not choose estradiol valerate/dienogest as their contraceptive while using
strong CYP3A4 inducers due to potential decrease in contraceptive efficacy.
Estradiol valerate/dienogest should not be used for at least 28 days after
discontinuation of the inducer due to possibility of decreased contraceptive efficacy.

elvitegravir/cobicistat/emtricitabine/tenofovir DF
oxcarbazepine decreases levels of elvitegravir/cobicistat/emtricitabine/tenofovir DF
by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated. May
lead to loss of virologic response and possible resistance.

eslicarbazepine acetate
oxcarbazepine, eslicarbazepine acetate. Either increases effects of the other by
pharmacodynamic synergism. Contraindicated.

ledipasvir/sofosbuvir
oxcarbazepine will decrease the level or effect of ledipasvir/sofosbuvir by P-
glycoprotein (MDR1) efflux transporter. Contraindicated. P-gp inducers decrease
sofosbuvir levels, and therefore decrease conversion to sofosbuvir's active
metabolite (GS-331007) responsible for 90% of pharmacologic effect

lurasidone
oxcarbazepine decreases levels of lurasidone by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme
CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated. Contraindicated.

panobinostat
oxcarbazepine decreases levels of panobinostat by affecting hepatic/intestinal
enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated. Strong CYP3A4 inducers can reduce
panobinostat levels by ~70% and lead to treatment failure.

praziquantel
oxcarbazepine decreases levels of praziquantel by affecting hepatic/intestinal
enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated. Strong CYP450 inducers
significantly decrease praziquantel blood levels.

regorafenib
oxcarbazepine, regorafenib. affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4
metabolism. Contraindicated. Strong CYP3A4 inducers decrease regorafenib levels
and increase exposure of the active metabolite M-5.

rilpivirine
oxcarbazepine decreases levels of rilpivirine by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme
CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated. Contraindicated. Rilpivirine should not be co-

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/trileptal-oxtellar-xr-oxcarbazepine-343014 6/22



6/22/26, 4:53 PM Trileptal, Oxtellar XR (oxcarbazepine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

administered with strong CYP 3A4 inducers. Potential for loss of virologic response
and possible resistance to rilpivirine or to the NNRTI class.

Serious (18)

acoramidis
oxcarbazepine decreases levels of acoramidis by increasing metabolism. Avoid or
Use Alternate Drug. Acoramidis is metabolized by UGT enzyme-mediated
glucuronidation. Coadministration with UGT inducers can potentially decrease
acoramidis exposure. .

axitinib
oxcarbazepine decreases levels of axitinib by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme
CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Selection of concomitant
medication with no or minimal CYP3A4 induction potential is recommended.

bosutinib
oxcarbazepine decreases levels of bosutinib by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme
CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Strong CYP3A4 inducers
decreased bosutinib plasma concentration by ~85%.

ceritinib
oxcarbazepine decreases levels of ceritinib by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme
CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

clopidogrel
oxcarbazepine decreases effects of clopidogrel by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2C19 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Clopidogrel efficacy may be
reduced by drugs that inhibit CYP2C19. Inhibition of platelet aggregation by
clopidogrel is entirely due to an active metabolite. Clopidogrel is metabolized to
this active metabolite in part by CYP2C19. .

dabrafenib
oxcarbazepine decreases levels of dabrafenib by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme
CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

dolutegravir
oxcarbazepine will decrease the level or effect of dolutegravir by increasing
metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Avoid coadministration; insufficient data
to recommend dosage adjustment

ethinylestradiol
oxcarbazepine will decrease the level or effect of ethinylestradiol by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. The
efficacy of hormonal contraceptives may be reduced. Use of a nonhormonal
contraceptive is recommended.

ibrutinib
oxcarbazepine decreases levels of ibrutinib by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme
CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Strong CYP3A inducers
decrease ibrutinib plasma concentrations by ~10-fold.

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/trileptal-oxtellar-xr-oxcarbazepine-343014 7/22



6/22/26, 4:53 PM Trileptal, Oxtellar XR (oxcarbazepine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

ivacaftor
oxcarbazepine decreases levels of ivacaftor by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme
CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Avoid coadministration with
strong CYP3A4 inducers; systemic exposure of ivacaftor substantially reduced (ie,
~9-fold).

letermovir
oxcarbazepine will decrease the level or effect of letermovir by Other (see
comment). Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Coadministration of letermovir with
UCT1A1/3 inducers is not recommended.

metoclopramide intranasal
oxcarbazepine, metoclopramide intranasal. Either increases effects of the other by
Other (see comment). Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Comment: Avoid use of
metoclopramide intranasal or interacting drug, depending on importance of drug to
patient.

olopatadine intranasal
oxcarbazepine and olopatadine intranasal both increase sedation. Avoid or Use
Alternate Drug. Coadministration increases risk of CNS depression, which can lead
to additive impairment of psychomotor performance and cause daytime impairment.

ponatinib
oxcarbazepine decreases levels of ponatinib by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme
CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Avoid unless the
coadministration outweighs the possible risk of ponatinib underexposure; monitor
for signs of reduced efficacy.

sofosbuvir
oxcarbazepine will decrease the level or effect of sofosbuvir by P-glycoprotein
(MDR1) efflux transporter. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. P-gp inducers decrease
sofosbuvir levels, and therefore decrease conversion to sofosbuvir's active
metabolite (GS-331007) responsible for 90% of pharmacologic effect

vemurafenib
oxcarbazepine decreases levels of vemurafenib by affecting hepatic/intestinal
enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

vorapaxar
oxcarbazepine decreases levels of vorapaxar by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme
CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

zuranolone
oxcarbazepine, zuranolone. Either increases effects of the other by
pharmacodynamic synergism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Coadministration of
zuranolone with other CNS depressants may increase impairment of psychomotor
performance or CNS depressant effects. If unavoidable, consider dose reduction. .

Monitor Closely (42)

abiraterone

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/trileptal-oxtellar-xr-oxcarbazepine-343014 8/22



6/22/26, 4:53 PM Trileptal, Oxtellar XR (oxcarbazepine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

oxcarbazepine decreases levels of abiraterone by affecting hepatic/intestinal
enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Avoid
coadministration of abiraterone with strong CYP3A4 inducers; if a strong CYP3A4
inducer must be used, increase abiraterone dosage frequency from once daily to
twice daily.

brentuximab vedotin
oxcarbazepine decreases levels of brentuximab vedotin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

calcifediol
oxcarbazepine, calcifediol. affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism.
Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Drugs that stimulate microsomal hydroxylation
reduce the half-life of calcifediol.

cenobamate
cenobamate, oxcarbazepine. Either increases effects of the other by sedation. Use
Caution/Monitor.

clobazam
oxcarbazepine, clobazam. Other (see comment). Use Caution/Monitor. Comment:
Concomitant administration can increase the potential for CNS effects (e.g.,
increased sedation or respiratory depression).

clopidogrel
oxcarbazepine decreases effects of clopidogrel by affecting hepatic/intestinal
enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Clopidogrel efficacy may be
reduced by drugs that inhibit CYP3A4. Inhibition of platelet aggregation by
clopidogrel is entirely due to an active metabolite. Clopidogrel is metabolized to
this active metabolite in part by CYP3A4. .

conjugated estrogens
oxcarbazepine will decrease the level or effect of conjugated estrogens by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

crizotinib
oxcarbazepine decreases levels of crizotinib by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme
CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Concomitant use of strong CYP3A
inducers should be avoided. .

daridorexant
oxcarbazepine and daridorexant both increase sedation. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely. Coadministration increases risk of CNS depression, which can lead to
additive impairment of psychomotor performance and cause daytime impairment.

deutetrabenazine
oxcarbazepine and deutetrabenazine both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

dichlorphenamide
dichlorphenamide and oxcarbazepine both decrease serum potassium. Use
Caution/Monitor.

difelikefalin

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/trileptal-oxtellar-xr-oxcarbazepine-343014 9/22



6/22/26, 4:53 PM Trileptal, Oxtellar XR (oxcarbazepine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

difelikefalin and oxcarbazepine both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

doxycycline
oxcarbazepine decreases levels of doxycycline by increasing metabolism. Use
Caution/Monitor.

escitalopram
oxcarbazepine will increase the level or effect of escitalopram by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

estradiol
oxcarbazepine will decrease the level or effect of estradiol by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

estrogens conjugated synthetic
oxcarbazepine will decrease the level or effect of estrogens conjugated synthetic by
affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

estrogens esterified
oxcarbazepine will decrease the level or effect of estrogens esterified by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

estropipate
oxcarbazepine will decrease the level or effect of estropipate by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

etonogestrel
oxcarbazepine will decrease the level or effect of etonogestrel by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

etravirine
oxcarbazepine will increase the level or effect of etravirine by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

fosphenytoin
oxcarbazepine will increase the level or effect of fosphenytoin by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

ifosfamide
oxcarbazepine increases toxicity of ifosfamide by affecting hepatic/intestinal
enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. CYP3A4 inducers may increase
the metabolism of ifosfamide to its active alkylating metabolites. CYP3A4 inducers
may increase the formation of the neurotoxic/nephrotoxic ifosfamide metabolite,
chloroacetaldehyde. Closely monitor patients taking ifosfamide with CYP3A4
inducers for toxicities and consider dose adjustment.

imipramine
oxcarbazepine will increase the level or effect of imipramine by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

levonorgestrel intrauterine
oxcarbazepine decreases levels of levonorgestrel intrauterine by affecting

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/trileptal-oxtellar-xr-oxcarbazepine-343014 10/22



6/22/26, 4:53 PM Trileptal, Oxtellar XR (oxcarbazepine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

levonorgestrel oral
oxcarbazepine decreases levels of levonorgestrel oral by affecting hepatic/intestinal
enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

levonorgestrel oral/ethinylestradiol/ferrous bisglycinate
oxcarbazepine will decrease the level or effect of levonorgestrel
oral/ethinylestradiol/ferrous bisglycinate by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme
CYP3A4 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. The efficacy of hormonal
contraceptives may be reduced. Use an alternative method of contraception or a
backup method when enzyme inducers are used with combined hormonal
contraceptives (CHCs), and continue backup contraception for 28 days after
discontinuing enzyme inducer to ensure contraceptive reliability.

linagliptin
oxcarbazepine decreases levels of linagliptin by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme
CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Use of alternative treatments is strongly
recommended when linagliptin is to be administered with a CYP3A4 inducer.

mavacamten
oxcarbazepine increases levels of mavacamten by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2C19 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Modify mavacamten dose if
coadministered with weak or moderate CYP2C19 inhibitors.

medroxyprogesterone
oxcarbazepine will decrease the level or effect of medroxyprogesterone by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
Contraceptirve failure possible. Use alternative if available.

methylphenidate transdermal
methylphenidate transdermal will increase the level or effect of oxcarbazepine by
decreasing metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Consider decreasing the
dose of these drugs when given coadministered with methylphenidate. Monitor for
drug toxiticities when initiating or discontinuing methylphenidate.

midazolam intranasal
midazolam intranasal, oxcarbazepine. Either increases toxicity of the other by
pharmacodynamic synergism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Concomitant use of
barbiturates, alcohol, or other CNS depressants may increase the risk of
hypoventilation, airway obstruction, desaturation, or apnea and may contribute to
profound and/or prolonged drug effect.

mitapivat
mitapivat decreases levels of oxcarbazepine by increasing metabolism. Use
Caution/Monitor. Mitapivat induces UGT1A1 in vitro and may decrease systemic
concentrations of UGT1A1 substrates.

omeprazole
oxcarbazepine will increase the level or effect of omeprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

orlistat

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/trileptal-oxtellar-xr-oxcarbazepine-343014 11/22



6/22/26, 4:53 PM Trileptal, Oxtellar XR (oxcarbazepine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

orlistat decreases levels of oxcarbazepine by inhibition of GI absorption. Applies
only to oral form of both agents. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Risk of
convulsions.

ospemifene
oxcarbazepine decreases levels of ospemifene by affecting hepatic/intestinal
enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

oxycodone
oxcarbazepine decreases levels of oxycodone by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme
CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

phenytoin
oxcarbazepine increases levels of phenytoin by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2C9/10 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Oxcarbazepine increases levels of
phenytoin at doses >1200 mg/day; monitor phenytoin levels during oxcarbazepine
titration period and dosage modification; may require a decrease in phenytoin dose.

sevelamer
sevelamer decreases levels of oxcarbazepine by increasing elimination. Use
Caution/Monitor.

sorafenib
oxcarbazepine decreases levels of sorafenib by increasing metabolism. Use
Caution/Monitor.

toremifene
oxcarbazepine decreases levels of toremifene by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme
CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. CYP3A4 inducers increase rate of
toremifene metabolism, lowering the steady-state concentration in serum.

vilazodone
oxcarbazepine decreases levels of vilazodone by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme
CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Consider increasing vilazodone dose up
to 2-fold (not to exceed 80 mg/day) when coadministered with strong CYP3A4
inducers for >14 days.

vortioxetine
oxcarbazepine increases levels of vortioxetine by increasing metabolism. Modify
Therapy/Monitor Closely. Consider increasing the vortioxetine dose when
coadministered with strong CYP inducers for >14 days; not to exceed 3 times
original vortioxetine dose.

Minor (31)

acetaminophen
oxcarbazepine decreases levels of acetaminophen by increasing metabolism.
Minor/Significance Unknown. Enhanced metabolism incr levels of hepatotoxic
metabolites.

acetaminophen IV

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/trileptal-oxtellar-xr-oxcarbazepine-343014 12/22



6/22/26, 4:53 PM Trileptal, Oxtellar XR (oxcarbazepine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

oxcarbazepine decreases levels of acetaminophen IV by increasing metabolism.
Minor/Significance Unknown. Enhanced metabolism incr levels of hepatotoxic
metabolites.

acetaminophen rectal
oxcarbazepine decreases levels of acetaminophen rectal by increasing metabolism.
Minor/Significance Unknown. Enhanced metabolism incr levels of hepatotoxic
metabolites.

amitriptyline
oxcarbazepine will increase the level or effect of amitriptyline by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.

atracurium
oxcarbazepine decreases effects of atracurium by pharmacodynamic antagonism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

biotin
oxcarbazepine decreases levels of biotin by unspecified interaction mechanism.
Minor/Significance Unknown. Biotin supplementation may be necessary.

carbamazepine
carbamazepine decreases levels of oxcarbazepine by increasing metabolism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

cimetidine
oxcarbazepine will increase the level or effect of cimetidine by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.

cisatracurium
oxcarbazepine decreases effects of cisatracurium by pharmacodynamic antagonism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

cyanocobalamin
oxcarbazepine decreases levels of cyanocobalamin by inhibition of GI absorption.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Minor/Significance Unknown.

dexmethylphenidate
dexmethylphenidate increases effects of oxcarbazepine by decreasing metabolism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

diazepam
oxcarbazepine will increase the level or effect of diazepam by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.

fosphenytoin
fosphenytoin decreases levels of oxcarbazepine by increasing metabolism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

lansoprazole
oxcarbazepine will increase the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/trileptal-oxtellar-xr-oxcarbazepine-343014 13/22



6/22/26, 4:53 PM Trileptal, Oxtellar XR (oxcarbazepine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

levocarnitine
oxcarbazepine decreases levels of levocarnitine by unspecified interaction
mechanism. Minor/Significance Unknown.

levothyroxine
oxcarbazepine decreases levels of levothyroxine by increasing metabolism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

liothyronine
oxcarbazepine decreases levels of liothyronine by increasing metabolism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

pancuronium
oxcarbazepine decreases effects of pancuronium by pharmacodynamic antagonism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

pantoprazole
oxcarbazepine will increase the level or effect of pantoprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown. Unclear on net effect
of pantoprazole action due to opposing effects by CYP450 enzymes; monitor

perampanel
perampanel increases levels of oxcarbazepine by affecting hepatic/intestinal
enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.

phenobarbital
phenobarbital decreases levels of oxcarbazepine by increasing metabolism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

phenytoin
phenytoin decreases levels of oxcarbazepine by increasing metabolism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

rapacuronium
oxcarbazepine decreases effects of rapacuronium by pharmacodynamic antagonism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

rocuronium
oxcarbazepine decreases effects of rocuronium by pharmacodynamic antagonism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

sage
sage decreases effects of oxcarbazepine by pharmacodynamic antagonism.
Minor/Significance Unknown. Theoretical interaction; some species of sage may
cause convulsions.

serdexmethylphenidate/dexmethylphenidate
serdexmethylphenidate/dexmethylphenidate increases effects of oxcarbazepine by
decreasing metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.

succinylcholine
oxcarbazepine decreases effects of succinylcholine by pharmacodynamic

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/trileptal-oxtellar-xr-oxcarbazepine-343014 14/22



6/22/26, 4:53 PM Trileptal, Oxtellar XR (oxcarbazepine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

antagonism. Minor/Significance Unknown.

thyroid desiccated
oxcarbazepine decreases levels of thyroid desiccated by increasing metabolism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

vecuronium
oxcarbazepine decreases effects of vecuronium by pharmacodynamic antagonism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

verapamil
verapamil decreases levels of oxcarbazepine by increasing metabolism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

voriconazole
oxcarbazepine will increase the level or effect of voriconazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.

Adverse Effects

>10%

Dizziness (30-50%)

Diplopia (30-50%)

Headache (26-30%)

Nausea/vomiting (26-30%)

Nystagmus (26-30%)

Somnolence (26-30%)

Ataxia (10-30%)

Abnormal gait (16-20%)

Tremor (16-20%)

Abdominal pain (11-15%)

Fatigue (11-15%)

Vertigo (11-15%)

Vision abnormalities (11-15%)

1-10%

Dyspepsia (5-6%)

Rash (4%)

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/trileptal-oxtellar-xr-oxcarbazepine-343014 15/22



6/22/26, 4:53 PM Trileptal, Oxtellar XR (oxcarbazepine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Insomnia (2-4%)

Abnormal thinking (<4%)

Hyponatremia (1-3%); varies widely (see Warnings)

Muscle weakness (1-2%)

Hypotension (<2%)

Speech disorder (1%)

Asthenia

Postmarketing Reports

Angioedema

Anaphylaxis

Multiorgan immune hypersensitivity reaction

Hematic and lymphatic systems: Bone marrow depression, agranulocytosis, aplastic
anemia, pancytopenia, neutropenia

Digestive system: Pancreatitis and/or lipase and/or amylase increased

Metabolism and nutrition disorders: Folic acid deficiency, hypothyroidism

Skin and appendages: Erythema multiforme, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal
necrolysis

Skeletal: Fractures, decreased bone mineral, osteoporosis

Body as a whole: Multiorgan hypersensitivity disorders characterized by features such as
rash, fever, lymphadenopathy, abnormal liver function tests, eosinophilia, and arthralgia

Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS)/Multi-Organ
Hypersensitivity

Warnings

Contraindications

Known hypersensitivity to oxcarbazepine or any of its components, or to eslicarbazepine
acetate

Cautions

Hypersensitivity reactions may occur; approximately 25% to 30% of patients who have
had hypersensitivity reactions to carbamazepine will experience hypersensitivity
reactions with this drug; for this reason, patients should be specifically questioned about
any prior experience with carbamazepine, and patients with a history of hypersensitivity
reactions to carbamazepine should ordinarily be treated with this drug only if potential

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/trileptal-oxtellar-xr-oxcarbazepine-343014 16/22



6/22/26, 4:53 PM Trileptal, Oxtellar XR (oxcarbazepine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

benefit justifies potential risk; discontinue therapy immediately if signs or symptoms of
hypersensitivity develop

Rare cases of anaphylaxis and angioedema involving larynx, glottis, lips and eyelids
have been reported in patients after taking the first or subsequent doses of immediate-
release oxcarbazepine; angioedema associated with laryngeal edema can be fatal; if a
patient develops any of these reactions after treatment with this drug, discontinue drug
and initiate an alternative treatment; do not rechallenge these patients with this drug

Caution performing tasks that require mental alertness

Hypothyroidism reported; monitor thyroid function, especially in children; discontinuation
of therapy associated with return of normal thyroxine levels

Half-life of primary active metabolite is prolonged 3- to 4-fold and AUC is doubled in
patients with CrCl <30 mL/min; adjust dose in these patients

Exacerbation of or new onset of primary generalized seizures reported; risk of
aggravation of primary generalized seizures is seen especially in children but may also
occur in adults; discontinue therapy if it occurs

Do not discontinue anticonvulsants abruptly; withdraw gradually because of risk of
increased seizure frequency and status epilepticus; if withdrawal is needed because of
serious adverse event, rapid discontinuation can be considered

Antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) increase risk of suicidal thoughts or behavior in patients
receiving therapy; anyone considering prescribing this drug or any other AED must
balance risk of suicidal thoughts or behavior with risk of untreated Illness; monitor for
emergence or worsening of depression, suicidal thoughts or behavior, and/or any
unusual changes in mood or behavior; should suicidal thoughts and behavior emerge
during treatment, the prescriber needs to consider whether emergence of these
symptoms in any given patient may be related to illness being treated

Rare reports of pancytopenia, agranulocytosis, and leukopenia seen in patients treated
with immediate-release oxcarbazepine during post-marketing experience;
discontinuation of this drug should be considered if any evidence of these hematologic
reactions develops

Dosage adjustment according to obesity status not necessary

Hyponatremia

Reported incidence of oxcarbazepine-induced hyponatremia varies greatly in the
literature; compared with other antiepileptic agents, oxcarbazepine has higher
reported incidences of asymptomatic hyponatremia (27-64%) and symptomatic
hyponatremia (5-22%) as have been described in various studies since its approval

Clinically significant hyponatremia (sodium <125 mmol/L) may develop during
therapy; serum sodium levels <125 mmol/L have occurred generally within several
months of initiating; however, clinically significant hyponatremia may develop after
more than a year

Most patients who developed hyponatremia were asymptomatic in clinical trials;
however, some of these patients had their dosage reduced, discontinued, or had
their fluid intake restricted for hyponatremia

Serum sodium levels returned toward normal when with dosage reduction or
discontinuation, or when patients were treated conservatively (eg, fluid restriction)

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/trileptal-oxtellar-xr-oxcarbazepine-343014 17/22



6/22/26, 4:53 PM Trileptal, Oxtellar XR (oxcarbazepine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Cases of symptomatic hyponatremia and syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic
hormone secretion (SIADH) have been reported during post-marketing use

Among treated patients in a controlled trial of adjunctive therapy with extended-
release tablets, overall incidence of clinically significant hyponatremia was 1.2%,
although slight shifts in serum sodium concentrations from normal to low (<135
mEq/L) were observed for treated groups compared to placebo (1.7%)

Measure serum sodium concentrations if patients develop symptoms of
hyponatremia (eg, nausea, malaise, headache, lethargy, confusion, obtunded
consciousness, or increase in seizure frequency or severity)

Measure serum sodium concentrations during treatment, particularly if concomitant
medications known to decrease serum sodium levels are also taken

Dermatological reactions

Serious dermatological reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS) and
toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), reported in both children and adults treated with
immediate-release oxcarbazepine use; the median time of onset for reported cases
was 19 days; such serious skin reactions may be life threatening, and some patients
have required hospitalization with very rare reports of fatal outcome

Recurrence of serious skin reactions following rechallenge with immediate-release
oxcarbazepine also reported; reporting rate of TEN and SJS associated with
immediate-release oxcarbazepine use, which is generally accepted to be an
underestimate due to underreporting, exceeds background incidence rate estimates
by a factor of 3- to 10-fold

Association with HLA-B*1502

Patients carrying the HLA-B*1502 allele may be at increased risk for SJS/TEN with
therapy; human Leukocyte Antigen (HLA) allele B*1502 increases risk for
developing SJS/TEN in patients treated with carbamazepine; the chemical
structures of immediate-release oxcarbazepine and extended-release are similar to
that of carbamazepine

Available clinical evidence, and data from nonclinical studies showing a direct
interaction between immediate-release oxcarbazepine and HLA-B*1502 protein,
suggest that the HLA-B*1502 allele may also increase risk for SJS/TEN with
extended release

The frequency of HLA-B*1502 allele ranges from 2 to 12% in Han Chinese
populations, is about 8% in Thai populations, and above 15% in the Philippines and
in some Malaysian populations

Allele frequencies up to about 2% and 6% reported in Korea and India, respectively;
the frequency of HLA-B*1502 allele is negligible in people from European descent,
several African populations, indigenous peoples of the Americas, Hispanic
populations, and in Japanese (<1%)

Testing for presence of HLA-B*1502 allele should be considered in patients with
ancestry in genetically at-risk populations, prior toinitiating treatment with this
drug; the use of this drug should be avoided in patients positive for HLA-B*1502
unless benefits clearly outweigh risks

Consideration should also be given to avoid use of other drugs associated with
SJS/TEN in HLA-B*1502 positive patients, when alternative therapies are
otherwise equally acceptable; screening is not generally recommended in patients

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/trileptal-oxtellar-xr-oxcarbazepine-343014 18/22



6/22/26, 4:53 PM Trileptal, Oxtellar XR (oxcarbazepine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

from populations in which prevalence of HLA-B*1502 is low, or in current users of
this drug, as the risk of SJS/TEN is largely confined to the first few months of
therapy, regardless of HLA-B*1502 status

The use of HLA-B*1502 genotyping has important limitations and must never
substitute for appropriate clinical vigilance and patient management; the role of
other possible factors in the development of, and morbidity from, SJS/TEN, such as
antiepileptic drug (AED) dosage, compliance, concomitant medications,
comorbidities, and the level of dermatologic monitoring have not been well
characterized

Long term

Associated with decreased mineral density, osteopenia, osteoporosis, and fractures

CNS-related adverse effects including difficulty with concentration, psychomotor
slowing, speech or language problems, somnolence or fatigue, reported

Coordination abnormalities, including ataxia and gait disturbances

Pregnancy effects

Plasma levels of active metabolite of oxcarbazepine, the 10¬ monohydroxy
derivative (MHD), may gradually decrease throughout pregnancy

Recommend patients be monitored carefully during pregnancy

Close monitoring should continue through postpartum period because MHD levels
may return after delivery (see Pregnancy)

DRESS

Drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS), also known as
multi-organ hypersensitivity, reported

Some of these events have been fatal or life-threatening

DRESS typically, although not exclusively, presents with fever, rash, and/or
lymphadenopathy, in association with other organ system involvement (eg,
hepatitis, nephritis, hematologic abnormalities, myocarditis, or myositis), sometimes
resembling an acute viral infection

Drug interactions overview

Phenytoin levels have been shown to increase with concomitant use of
oxcarbazepine at doses >1200 mg/day; therefore, it is recommended that the
plasma levels of phenytoin be monitored during oxcarbazepine titration and dosage
modification; a dose reduction of phenytoin may be required

Strong CYP450 enzymes and/or UGT inducers (eg, rifampin, carbamazepine,
phenytoin and phenobarbital) have been shown to decrease the plasma/serum
levels of MHD, the active metabolite of oxcarbazepine (25% to 49%) (see Dosage
Considerations)

Concurrent use of oxcarbazepine with hormonal contraceptives may render these
contraceptives less effective

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/trileptal-oxtellar-xr-oxcarbazepine-343014 19/22



6/22/26, 4:53 PM Trileptal, Oxtellar XR (oxcarbazepine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Pregnancy & Lactation

Pregnancy

There is a pregnancy exposure registry that monitors pregnancy outcomes in women
exposed to AEDs, such as TRILEPTAL, during pregnancy. Encourage women who are
taking TRILEPTAL during pregnancy to enroll in the North American Antiepileptic Drug
(NAAED) Pregnancy Registry by calling 1-888-233-2334 or visiting
https://www.aedpregnancyregistry.org/

No adequate and well-controlled clinical studies of oxcarbazepine in pregnant women;
however, oxcarbazepine is closely related structurally to carbamazepine, which is
considered to be teratogenic in humans

Data on a limited number of pregnancies from pregnancy registries suggest congenital
malformations associated with oxcarbazepine monotherapy use (eg, craniofacial defects
such as oral clefts and cardiac malformations such as ventricular septal defects)

Use of drug with hormonal contraceptives containing ethinylestradiol or levonorgestrel
associated with decreased plasma concentrations of these hormones and may result in a
failure of therapeutic effect of oral contraceptive drug; advise women of reproductive
potential taking drug who are using a contraceptive containing ethinylestradiol or
levonorgestrel to use additional or alternative non-hormonal birth control

Use during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus

Oxcarbazepine levels may decrease during pregnancy

Lactation

Oxcarbazepine and its active metabolite (MHD) are excreted in human milk

A milk-to-plasma concentration ratio of 0.5 was found for oxcarbazepine and MHD

Owing to potential serious adverse reactions to oxcarbazepine in nursing infants,
developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with
mother’s clinical need for drug and any potential adverse effects on breastfed infant from
drug or from underlying maternal

Pregnancy Categories

A: Generally acceptable. Controlled studies in pregnant women show no evidence of
fetal risk.

B: May be acceptable. Either animal studies show no risk but human studies not available
or animal studies showed minor risks and human studies done and showed no risk.

C: Use with caution if benefits outweigh risks. Animal studies show risk and human
studies not available or neither animal nor human studies done.

D: Use in LIFE-THREATENING emergencies when no safer drug available. Positive
evidence of human fetal risk.

X: Do not use in pregnancy. Risks involved outweigh potential benefits. Safer alternatives
exist.

NA: Information not available.

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/trileptal-oxtellar-xr-oxcarbazepine-343014 20/22



6/22/26, 4:53 PM Trileptal, Oxtellar XR (oxcarbazepine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Pharmacology

Mechanism of Action

MHD stabilizes neuronal membranes by blocking Na+ channels; this may inhibit
repetitive firing and may decrease the propagation of synaptic impulses; may also
increase potassium conductance and modulate the activity of high-voltage activated
calcium channels

Absorption

Bioavailability: Complete

Peak serum time: 4.5 hr (tablet); 6 hr (suspension)

Steady-state reached within 2-3 days

Food: No effect on rate/extent of absorption

Distribution

Protein bound: 40% (MHD); primarily bound to albumin

Vd: 49 L

Metabolism

Rapidly reduces by cytosolic enzymes in the liver to active metabolite

Metabolites (active): MHD

Enzymes induced: CYP3A4

Enzymes inhibited: CYP2C19

Elimination

Half-life: 2 hr (immediate-release parent drug); 9 hr (immediate-release derivative
MHD); 7-11 hr (extended-release parent drug); 9-11 hr (extended-release derivative
MHD)

Excretion: Urine (>95%)

Clearance

Children aged 2 to <4 years: ~80% higher than adults

Children aged 4-12 years: ~40% higher than adults

Obese children aged ≤18 years: Steady-state MHD similar between obese and non-
obese; dosage adjustment according to obesity is not necessary

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/trileptal-oxtellar-xr-oxcarbazepine-343014 21/22



6/22/26, 4:53 PM Trileptal, Oxtellar XR (oxcarbazepine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Administration

Oral Suspension Preparation

Shake bottle well and prepare dose immediately afterwards

Withdraw prescribed dose from bottle using oral syringes provided; a household
teaspoon or tablespoon is not an adequate measuring device and should not be used

Mix in a small glass of water just prior to administration or, alternatively, may be
swallowed directly from syringe

After each use, close bottle and rinse the syringe with warm water and allow it to dry
thoroughly

Oral Administration

Take with or without food

Oral suspension and film-coated tablets may be interchanged at equal doses

Storage

Oral suspension

Store at room temperature, 25°C (77°F); excursions permitted to 15-30°C (59-86°F)

Use within 7 weeks of first opening bottle

Tablets

Store at room temperature, 25°C (77°F); excursions permitted to 15-30°C (59-86°F)

Formulary

Adding plans allows you to compare formulary status to other drugs in the same class.

Formulary information is available for health plans only in the United States.

Medscape prescription drug monographs are based on FDA-approved labeling information, unless otherwise noted,
combined with additional data derived from primary medical literature.

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/trileptal-oxtellar-xr-oxcarbazepine-343014 22/22