6/22/26, 5:12 PM Pravastatin dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
This site is intended for healthcare professionals

pravastatin (Rx)
Brand and Other Names: Pravachol (DSC)
Classes: Lipid-Lowering Agents, Statins; HMG-CoA Reductase Inhibitors

Dosing & Uses

ADULT
Dosage Forms & Strengths

tablets

10mg

20mg

40mg

80mg

Hyperlipidemia, Primary Prevention of Coronary Events, Secondary Prevention of
Cardiovascular Events

May be beneficial for prophylaxis of cardiovascular events in at-risk patients, even if
patients have normal levels of cholesterol.

10-40 mg PO qDay; not to exceed 80 mg/day

Initiate with 10 mg qHS if taking immunosuppressants like cyclosporine concurrently;
not to exceed 20 mg/day

Limit maximum to 40 mg/day if taking concurrently with clarithromycin

Dose adjustments should be made at intervals of 4 weeks or more; individualize dosing
according to baseline LDL cholesterol levels

Dosing Considerations

Overdose management

Adverse drug reactions from overdose may include peripheral neuropathy, diarrhea,
increased K+, myopathy, rhabdomyolysis, acute renal failure, elevated LFTs, eye

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/pravachol-pravastatin-342460 1/20



6/22/26, 5:12 PM Pravastatin dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

lens opacities

Treatment is supportive

Dosing Modifications

Renal impairment

10 mg PO qDay initially

Hepatic impairment

Contraindicated if active liver disease or unexplained persistent elevations of serum
transaminases

PEDIATRIC
Dosage Forms & Strengths

tablets

10mg (generic only)

20mg

40mg

80mg

Heterozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia

8-13 years: 20 mg PO qDay

14-18 years: 40 mg PO qDay

Coadministration with cyclosporine: Initiate with 10 mg qHS; not to exceed 20 mg/day

Limit maximum to 40 mg/day if taking concurrently with clarithromycin

Dose adjustments should be made at intervals of 4 weeks or more; individualize dosing
according to baseline LDL cholesterol levels

Interactions

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/pravachol-pravastatin-342460 2/20



6/22/26, 5:12 PM Pravastatin dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Interaction Checker

Enter a drug name to check for any interactions. Type a drug, OTC, or herbal  and pravastatin
No Interactions Found
Interactions Found
Contraindicated

Serious

Significant - Monitor Closely

Minor

All Interactions Sort By: Severity
Contraindicated (2)

gemfibrozil
gemfibrozil increases toxicity of pravastatin by Other (see comment).
Contraindicated. Comment: OATP1B1 inhibitors may increase risk of myopathy.

red yeast rice
pravastatin, red yeast rice. Either increases toxicity of the other by
pharmacodynamic synergism. Contraindicated. May increase creatine kinase levels
and increase risk of myopathy or rhabdomyolysis; red yeast rice contains monocolin
K (reportedly identical to lovastatin).

Serious (17)

ceftobiprole medocaril sodium
ceftobiprole medocaril sodium will increase the level or effect of pravastatin by
Other (see comment). Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Ceftobiprole (an OATP1B1/1B3
inhibitor) may increase plasma concentrations of OATP1B1 and OATP1B3
substrates.

colchicine
colchicine, pravastatin. Either increases toxicity of the other by pharmacodynamic
synergism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Increased risk of rhabdomyolysis (incl a
fatality).

cyclosporine
cyclosporine increases toxicity of pravastatin by Other (see comment). Avoid or Use
Alternate Drug. Comment: Cyclosporine, an OATP1B1 inhibitor, with pravastatin,
OATP1B1 substrate, may increase risk of myopathy. Initiate pravastatin dose at 10
mg/day and not to exceed 20 mg/day in patients who are also receiving
cyclosporine.

eltrombopag
eltrombopag increases toxicity of pravastatin by Other (see comment). Avoid or Use
Alternate Drug. Comment: OATP1B1 inhibitors may increase risk of myopathy.

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/pravachol-pravastatin-342460 3/20



6/22/26, 5:12 PM Pravastatin dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

eluxadoline
pravastatin increases levels of eluxadoline by decreasing metabolism. Avoid or Use
Alternate Drug. Decrease eluxadoline dose to 75 mg PO BID if coadministered with
OATP1B1 inhibitors. .

enasidenib
enasidenib will increase the level or effect of pravastatin by Other (see comment).
Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Avoid coadministration of enasidenib with sensitive
OATP1B1, OATP1B3, or BCRP substrates, for which minimal concentration
changes may lead to serious toxicities. If unavoidable, decrease the substrate(s)
dosage in accordance with their Prescribing Information.

fenofibrate
fenofibrate, pravastatin. Either increases effects of the other by pharmacodynamic
synergism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Fenofibrate may further increase risk for
rhabdomyolysis when added to optimal statin regimen to further decrease TG and
increase HDLs.

fenofibrate micronized
fenofibrate micronized, pravastatin. Either increases effects of the other by
pharmacodynamic synergism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Fenofibrate may further
increase risk for rhabdomyolysis when added to optimal statin regimen to further
decrease TG and increase HDLs.

fenofibric acid
fenofibric acid, pravastatin. Either increases effects of the other by
pharmacodynamic synergism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Fenofibrate may further
increase risk for rhabdomyolysis when added to optimal statin regimen to further
decrease TG and increase HDLs.

gemfibrozil
gemfibrozil, pravastatin. Either increases effects of the other by pharmacodynamic
synergism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Gemfibrozil may further increase risk for
rhabdomyolysis when added to optimal statin regimen to further decrease TG and
increase HDLs.

leniolisib
leniolisib will increase the level or effect of pravastatin by Other (see comment).
Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Leniolisib, an OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 inhibitor, may
increase systemic exposure of these substrates

lonafarnib
pravastatin will increase the level or effect of lonafarnib by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. If
coadministration of lonafarnib (a sensitive CYP3A substrate) with weak CYP3A
inhibitors is unavoidable, reduce to, or continue lonafarnib at starting dose. Closely
monitor for arrhythmias and events (eg, syncope, heart palpitations) since
lonafarnib effect on QT interval is unknown.

niacin
niacin, pravastatin. Either increases toxicity of the other by pharmacodynamic
synergism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Increased risk of rhabdomyolysis (>1 g/day

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/pravachol-pravastatin-342460 4/20



6/22/26, 5:12 PM Pravastatin dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

niacin).

sotorasib
sotorasib will decrease the level or effect of pravastatin by P-glycoprotein (MDR1)
efflux transporter. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. If use is unavoidable, refer to the
prescribing information of the P-gp substrate for dosage modifications.

tepotinib
tepotinib will increase the level or effect of pravastatin by P-glycoprotein (MDR1)
efflux transporter. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. If concomitant use unavoidable,
reduce the P-gp substrate dosage if recommended in its approved product labeling.

trofinetide
trofinetide will increase the level or effect of pravastatin by Other (see comment).
Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Trofinetide (an OATP131 and OATP13B inhibitor)
may increase plasma levels of OATP131 or OATP13B substrates. Avoid
coadministration with sensitive substrates.

zongertinib
zongertinib increases levels of pravastatin by altering metabolism. Avoid or Use
Alternate Drug. Avoid coadministration of zongertinib with certain BCRP substrates
where minimal concentration changes may lead to serious adverse reactions. If
unavoidable, monitor for increased adverse reactions and follow recommendations
provided in the approved product labeling for the BCRP substrate.

Monitor Closely (85)

abemaciclib
abemaciclib will increase the level or effect of pravastatin by P-glycoprotein
(MDR1) efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

abrocitinib
abrocitinib will increase the level or effect of pravastatin by P-glycoprotein (MDR1)
efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

adagrasib
adagrasib will increase the level or effect of pravastatin by P-glycoprotein (MDR1)
efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

aficamten
aficamten will increase the level or effect of pravastatin by P-glycoprotein (MDR1)
efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

apalutamide
apalutamide will decrease the level or effect of pravastatin by increasing
elimination. Use Caution/Monitor. Apalutamide weakly induces OATP1B1 and may
decrease systemic exposure of drugs that are OATP1B1 substrates.

apixaban
apixaban will increase the level or effect of pravastatin by P-glycoprotein (MDR1)
efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/pravachol-pravastatin-342460 5/20



6/22/26, 5:12 PM Pravastatin dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

avapritinib
pravastatin will increase the level or effect of avapritinib by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

axitinib
pravastatin increases levels of axitinib by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme
CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

azithromycin
azithromycin will increase the level or effect of pravastatin by P-glycoprotein
(MDR1) efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

belumosudil
belumosudil will increase the level or effect of pravastatin by P-glycoprotein
(MDR1) efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

bempedoic acid
bempedoic acid increases levels of pravastatin by unknown mechanism. Modify
Therapy/Monitor Closely. Avoid concomitant use with pravastatin dose >40 mg.

berotralstat
berotralstat will increase the level or effect of pravastatin by P-glycoprotein
(MDR1) efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor. Monitor or titrate P-gp substrate
dose if coadministered.

bosutinib
bosutinib increases levels of pravastatin by P-glycoprotein (MDR1) efflux
transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

cannabidiol
cannabidiol increases levels of pravastatin by P-glycoprotein (MDR1) efflux
transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

capmatinib
capmatinib will increase the level or effect of pravastatin by P-glycoprotein (MDR1)
efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

carbamazepine
carbamazepine increases toxicity of pravastatin by Other (see comment). Modify
Therapy/Monitor Closely. Comment: OATP1B1 inhibitors may increase risk of
myopathy.

carfilzomib
carfilzomib will increase the level or effect of pravastatin by P-glycoprotein (MDR1)
efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

caspofungin
caspofungin increases toxicity of pravastatin by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: OATP1B1 inhibitors may increase risk of myopathy.

cholestyramine
cholestyramine decreases levels of pravastatin by inhibition of GI absorption.

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/pravachol-pravastatin-342460 6/20



6/22/26, 5:12 PM Pravastatin dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.

clarithromycin
clarithromycin increases levels of pravastatin by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme
CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Monitor for myopathy; do not exceed
pravastatin dose of 40 mg/day when coadministered with clarithromycin .

clarithromycin increases toxicity of pravastatin by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: OATP1B1 inhibitors may increase risk of myopathy.

clotrimazole
clotrimazole increases toxicity of pravastatin by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: OATP1B1 inhibitors may increase risk of myopathy.

cobicistat
cobicistat will increase the level or effect of pravastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.
For HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors that are not contraindicated with cobicistat, start
with the lowest recommended dose and titrate while monitoring for safety.

cobicistat will increase the level or effect of pravastatin by P-glycoprotein (MDR1)
efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

crizotinib
crizotinib increases levels of pravastatin by P-glycoprotein (MDR1) efflux
transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

danicopan
danicopan will increase the level or effect of pravastatin by P-glycoprotein (MDR1)
efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor. Danicopan increases plasma
concentrations of P-gp substrates; consider dose reduction of P-gp substrates
where minimal concentration changes may lead to serious adverse reactions.

daptomycin
pravastatin, daptomycin. Either increases toxicity of the other by Other (see
comment). Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Comment: Coadministration of
daptomycin with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors may increase CPK levels and risk
for myopathy; consider temporary suspension of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors
during daptomycin therapy.

daridorexant
daridorexant will increase the level or effect of pravastatin by P-glycoprotein
(MDR1) efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

darunavir
darunavir increases levels of pravastatin by unknown mechanism. Use
Caution/Monitor.

darunavir will increase the level or effect of pravastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.
For HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors that are not contraindicated with darunavir, start
with the lowest recommended dose and titrate while monitoring for safety.

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/pravachol-pravastatin-342460 7/20



6/22/26, 5:12 PM Pravastatin dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

dronedarone
dronedarone will increase the level or effect of pravastatin by P-glycoprotein
(MDR1) efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

elafibranor
elafibranor, pravastatin. Either increases toxicity of the other by pharmacodynamic
synergism. Use Caution/Monitor. Both drugs increase risk for CPK elevation and/or
myalgia.

elagolix
elagolix will increase the level or effect of pravastatin by P-glycoprotein (MDR1)
efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

eliglustat
eliglustat increases effects of pravastatin by P-glycoprotein (MDR1) efflux
transporter. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Monitor therapeutic drug
concentrations, as indicated, or consider reducing the dosage of the P-gp substrate
and titrate to clinical effect.

encorafenib
encorafenib will increase the level or effect of pravastatin by Other (see comment).
Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Encorafenib (a OATP1B1, OATP1B3, and BCRP
inhibitor) may increase the concentration and toxicities of OATP1B1, OATP1B3, and
BCRP substrates. Closely monitor for signs and symptoms of increased exposure
and consider adjusting the dose of these substrates. Screen reader support
enabled.

erythromycin base
erythromycin base increases toxicity of pravastatin by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: OATP1B1 inhibitors may increase risk of myopathy.

erythromycin ethylsuccinate
erythromycin ethylsuccinate increases toxicity of pravastatin by Other (see
comment). Use Caution/Monitor. Comment: OATP1B1 inhibitors may increase risk
of myopathy.

erythromycin lactobionate
erythromycin lactobionate increases toxicity of pravastatin by Other (see comment).
Use Caution/Monitor. Comment: OATP1B1 inhibitors may increase risk of myopathy.

erythromycin stearate
erythromycin stearate increases toxicity of pravastatin by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: OATP1B1 inhibitors may increase risk of myopathy.

finerenone
pravastatin will increase the level or effect of finerenone by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.
Monitor serum potassium during initiation and dosage adjustment of either
finererone or weak CYP3A4 inhibitors. Adjust finererone dosage as needed.

flibanserin
pravastatin will increase the level or effect of flibanserin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Increased

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/pravachol-pravastatin-342460 8/20



6/22/26, 5:12 PM Pravastatin dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

flibanserin adverse effects may occur if coadministered with multiple weak CYP3A4
inhibitors.

flibanserin will increase the level or effect of pravastatin by P-glycoprotein (MDR1)
efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

fostemsavir
fostemsavir will increase the level or effect of pravastatin by Other (see comment).
Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Fostemsavir inhibits OATP1B1/3 transporter. If
possible, avoid coadministration or modify dose of OATP1B1/3 substrates
coadministered with fostemsavir. Use lowest possible starting dose for statins and
monitor for associated adverse events.

glecaprevir/pibrentasvir
glecaprevir/pibrentasvir increases levels of pravastatin by Other (see comment).
Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Comment: Increased statin concentrations
resulting from OATP1B1 inhibition may increase risk of myopathy, including
rhabdomyolysis. If coadministered, reduce pravastatin dose by 50%.

glyburide
glyburide increases toxicity of pravastatin by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: OATP1B1 inhibitors may increase risk of myopathy.

imlunestrant
imlunestrant increases levels of pravastatin by P-glycoprotein (MDR1) efflux
transporter. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Monitor for pravastatin adverse effects
if coadministered with moderate P-gp inhibitors. Modify dose if needed. .

isavuconazonium sulfate
pravastatin will increase the level or effect of isavuconazonium sulfate by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

istradefylline
istradefylline will increase the level or effect of pravastatin by P-glycoprotein
(MDR1) efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor. Istradefylline 40 mg/day increased
peak levels and AUC of P-gp substrates in clinical trials. Consider dose reduction of
sensitive P-gp substrates.

ivacaftor
ivacaftor increases levels of pravastatin by P-glycoprotein (MDR1) efflux
transporter. Use Caution/Monitor. Ivacaftor and its M1 metabolite has the potential
to inhibit P-gp; may significantly increase systemic exposure to sensitive P-gp
substrates with a narrow therapeutic index.

pravastatin increases levels of ivacaftor by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme
CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Monitor when coadministered with
weak CYP3A4 inhibitors .

ketoconazole
ketoconazole increases toxicity of pravastatin by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: OATP1B1 inhibitors may increase risk of myopathy.

lanthanum carbonate

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/pravachol-pravastatin-342460 9/20



6/22/26, 5:12 PM Pravastatin dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

lanthanum carbonate decreases levels of pravastatin by cation binding in GI tract.
Use Caution/Monitor. Administer statin at least 2 hr before or 2 hr after lanthanum.
Monitor serum concentrations.

lemborexant
pravastatin will increase the level or effect of lemborexant by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.
Lower nightly dose of lemborexant recommended if coadministered with weak
CYP3A4 inhibitors. See drug monograph for specific dosage modification.

letermovir
letermovir increases levels of pravastatin by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme
CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Coadministration of letermovir with
pravastatin may require a dosage reduction. Closely monitor patients for myopathy
and rhabdomyolysis. When letermovir is coadministered with cyclosporine, the
dose of pravastatin should not exceed 20 mg PO qDay.

levoketoconazole
levoketoconazole increases toxicity of pravastatin by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: OATP1B1 inhibitors may increase risk of myopathy.

lonafarnib
lonafarnib will increase the level or effect of pravastatin by P-glycoprotein (MDR1)
efflux transporter. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Lonafarnib is a weak P-gp
inhibitor. Monitor for adverse reactions if coadministered with P-gp substrates
where minimal concentration changes may lead to serious or life-threatening
toxicities. Reduce P-gp substrate dose if needed.

mavorixafor
mavorixafor will increase the level or effect of pravastatin by P-glycoprotein
(MDR1) efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor. Caution if mavorixafor (a P-gp
inhibitor) is coadministered with a sensitive P-gp substrate where minimal
substrate concentration changes may lead to serious adverse effects.

mesterolone
mesterolone increases toxicity of pravastatin by decreasing metabolism. Use
Caution/Monitor. Risk of rhabdomyolysis (theoretical interaction based on case
reports of combination of danazol and >20 mg/day lovastatin).

metyrapone
metyrapone increases toxicity of pravastatin by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: OATP1B1 inhibitors may increase risk of myopathy.

midazolam intranasal
pravastatin will increase the level or effect of midazolam intranasal by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
Coadministration of mild CYP3A4 inhibitors with midazolam intranasal may cause
higher midazolam systemic exposure, which may prolong sedation.

mifepristone
mifepristone increases toxicity of pravastatin by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: OATP1B1 inhibitors may increase risk of myopathy.

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/pravachol-pravastatin-342460 10/20



6/22/26, 5:12 PM Pravastatin dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

mipomersen
mipomersen increases toxicity of pravastatin by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: Both drugs have potential to increase hepatic enzymes;
monitor LFTs; OATP1B1 inhibitors may increase risk of myopathy.

nelfinavir
nelfinavir increases toxicity of pravastatin by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: OATP1B1 inhibitors may increase risk of myopathy.

ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir & dasabuvir (DSC)
ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir & dasabuvir (DSC) will increase the level or effect
of pravastatin by decreasing hepatic clearance. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.
Maximum daily dose of pravastatin should be limited to 40 mg/day

ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir & dasabuvir (DSC) increases toxicity of pravastatin
by Other (see comment). Use Caution/Monitor. Comment: OATP1B1 inhibitors may
increase risk of myopathy.

paclitaxel
paclitaxel increases toxicity of pravastatin by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: OATP1B1 inhibitors may increase risk of myopathy.

pazopanib
pazopanib increases toxicity of pravastatin by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: OATP1B1 inhibitors may increase risk of myopathy.

pioglitazone
pioglitazone increases toxicity of pravastatin by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: OATP1B1 inhibitors may increase risk of myopathy.

ponatinib
ponatinib increases levels of pravastatin by P-glycoprotein (MDR1) efflux
transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

ponatinib increases toxicity of pravastatin by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: OATP1B1 inhibitors may increase risk of myopathy.

pretomanid
pretomanid will increase the level or effect of pravastatin by Other (see comment).
Use Caution/Monitor. Increase monitoring for drug-related adverse effects if
pretomanid is coadministered with sensitive OATP1B3 substrates.

ranolazine
ranolazine increases toxicity of pravastatin by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: OATP1B1 inhibitors may increase risk of myopathy.

remibrutinib
remibrutinib increases levels of pravastatin by P-glycoprotein (MDR1) efflux
transporter. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Monitor for pravastatin adverse effects
if coadministered with moderate P-gp inhibitors. Modify dose if needed. .

repaglinide

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/pravachol-pravastatin-342460 11/20



6/22/26, 5:12 PM Pravastatin dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

repaglinide increases toxicity of pravastatin by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: OATP1B1 inhibitors may increase risk of myopathy.

resmetirom
resmetirom will increase the level or effect of pravastatin by Other (see comment).
Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Resmetirom inhibits BCRP and OAT1B1/3
transporters. Monitor for statin-related adverse reactions, including but not limited
to elevation of liver tests, myopathy, and rhabdomyolysis. Limit daily dosage of
statin as recommended.

rifampin
rifampin increases toxicity of pravastatin by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: OATP1B1 inhibitors may increase risk of myopathy.

rilzabrutinib
rilzabrutinib increases levels of pravastatin by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: Increases exposure and adverse effects of OATP1B1
substrates.

ritonavir
ritonavir increases toxicity of pravastatin by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: OATP1B1 inhibitors may increase risk of myopathy.

rosiglitazone
rosiglitazone increases toxicity of pravastatin by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: OATP1B1 inhibitors may increase risk of myopathy.

sacubitril/valsartan
sacubitril/valsartan increases toxicity of pravastatin by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: OATP1B1 inhibitors may increase risk of myopathy.

pravastatin will increase the level or effect of sacubitril/valsartan by Other (see
comment). Use Caution/Monitor. The results from an in vitro study with human liver
tissue indicate that valsartan is a substrate of the hepatic uptake transporter
OATP1B1; coadministration with OATP1B1 inhibitors may increase valsartan
systemic exposure

sarecycline
sarecycline will increase the level or effect of pravastatin by P-glycoprotein (MDR1)
efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor. Monitor for toxicities of P-gp substrates
that may require dosage reduction when coadministered with P-gp inhibitors.

stiripentol
stiripentol will increase the level or effect of pravastatin by P-glycoprotein (MDR1)
efflux transporter. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Consider reducing the dose of
P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrates, if adverse reactions are experienced when
administered concomitantly with stiripentol.

sunvozertinib
sunvozertinib increases levels of pravastatin by P-glycoprotein (MDR1) efflux
transporter. Use Caution/Monitor. Follow substrate recommendations.

tacrolimus

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/pravachol-pravastatin-342460 12/20



6/22/26, 5:12 PM Pravastatin dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

tacrolimus increases toxicity of pravastatin by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: OATP1B1 inhibitors may increase risk of myopathy.

telmisartan
telmisartan increases toxicity of pravastatin by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: OATP1B1 inhibitors may increase risk of myopathy.

tenapanor
tenapanor decreases levels of pravastatin by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: Tenapanor (an inhibitor of intestinal uptake transporter,
OATP2B1) may reduce the exposure of OATP2B1 substrates.

tinidazole
pravastatin will increase the level or effect of tinidazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

tucatinib
tucatinib will increase the level or effect of pravastatin by P-glycoprotein (MDR1)
efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor. Consider reducing the dosage of P-gp
substrates, where minimal concentration changes may lead to serious or life-
threatening toxicities.

valsartan
pravastatin will increase the level or effect of valsartan by Other (see comment).
Use Caution/Monitor. The results from an in vitro study with human liver tissue
indicate that valsartan is a substrate of the hepatic uptake transporter OATP1B1;
coadministration with OATP1B1 inhibitors may increase valsartan systemic
exposure

valsartan increases toxicity of pravastatin by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: OATP1B1 inhibitors may increase risk of myopathy.

vemurafenib
vemurafenib increases levels of pravastatin by P-glycoprotein (MDR1) efflux
transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

vimseltinib
vimseltinib increases levels of pravastatin by P-glycoprotein (MDR1) efflux
transporter. Use Caution/Monitor. If coadministration cannot be avoided, take the
drug 4 hours before taking the P-gp substrate; increases risk of myopathy,
rhabdomyolysis; monitor creatinine kinase, myopathy symptoms.

warfarin
pravastatin increases effects of warfarin by anticoagulation. Use Caution/Monitor.
Dosage adjustment of anticoagulant based in INR and clinical response may be
necessary.

Minor (8)

coenzyme Q10
pravastatin decreases levels of coenzyme Q10 by unspecified interaction

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/pravachol-pravastatin-342460 13/20



6/22/26, 5:12 PM Pravastatin dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

mechanism. Minor/Significance Unknown.

colestipol
colestipol decreases levels of pravastatin by inhibition of GI absorption. Applies
only to oral form of both agents. Minor/Significance Unknown.

isradipine
isradipine decreases levels of pravastatin by unknown mechanism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

orlistat
orlistat increases effects of pravastatin by pharmacodynamic synergism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

ruxolitinib
pravastatin will increase the level or effect of ruxolitinib by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.

ruxolitinib topical
pravastatin will increase the level or effect of ruxolitinib topical by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.

trazodone
trazodone increases levels of pravastatin by unspecified interaction mechanism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

voclosporin
voclosporin will increase the level or effect of pravastatin by Other (see comment).
Minor/Significance Unknown. Information suggests voclosporin (an OATP1B1
inhibitor) may increase in the concentration of OATP1B1 substrates is possible.
Monitor for adverse reactions of OATP1B1 substrates when coadministered with
voclosporin.

Adverse Effects

1-10%

Nausea/vomiting (7%)

Diarrhea (6%)

Headache (2-6%)

Chest pain (4%)

Fatigue (4%)

Rash (4%)

Cough (3%)

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/pravachol-pravastatin-342460 14/20



6/22/26, 5:12 PM Pravastatin dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Heartburn (3%)

Flulike symptoms (2%)

Myalgia (2%)

Frequency Not Defined

Myopathy

Rhabdomyolysis

Postmarketing Reports

Musculoskeletal: Polymyositis

Respiratory: Interstitial lung disease

Psychiatric: Nightmare

Nervous system: Dysfunction of certain cranial nerves (including alteration of taste,
impairment of extraocular movement, facial paresis), peripheral nerve palsy; rare
postmarketing reports of cognitive impairment (eg, memory loss, forgetfulness, amnesia,
memory impairment, confusion) associated with statin use; cognitive impairment was
generally nonserious, and reversible upon statin discontinuation, with variable times to
symptom onset (1 day to years) and symptom resolution (median of 3 weeks)

Warnings

Contraindications

Hypersensitivity

Active liver disease elevated LFTs, decompensated cirrhosis

Cautions

Reduced cholesterol synthesis could theoretically lead to a reduction in gonadal or
adrenal steroid hormone production; data is inconsistent; evaluate and treat as clinically
indicated patients with signs or symptoms of endocrine dysfunction; use caution when
coadministering with concomitant medication that could reduce steroid hormone levels,
including ketoconazole, cimetidine, or spironolactone

Fatal and nonfatal hepatic failure reported with use; interrupt therapy if symptoms of
hepatotoxicity occur, including jaundice or hyperbilirubinemia; obtain liver enzyme tests
at baseline and as clinically indicated; alcohol may increase hepatic effects; patient
should avoid excessive intake of alcohol

Nonserious and reversible cognitive side effects may occur

Increased blood sugar and glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1c) levels reported with statin
intake; optimize lifestyle measures, including regular exercise, maintaining a healthy
body weight, and making healthy food choices

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/pravachol-pravastatin-342460 15/20



6/22/26, 5:12 PM Pravastatin dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Risk of rhabdomyolysis; predisposing factors include advanced age (≥65), uncontrolled
hypothyroidism, and renal impairment; discontinue if myopathy develops

Instruct patients to promptly report any unexplained muscle pain, tenderness or
weakness, particularly if accompanied by malaise or fever

Max response 4-6 weeks

Temporarily discontinue therapy in patients experiencing an acute or serious condition at
high risk of developing renal failure secondary to rhabdomyolysis, eg, sepsis; shock;
severe hypovolemia; major surgery; trauma; severe metabolic, endocrine, or electrolyte
disorders; or uncontrolled epilepsy

Rule out secondary causes of hyperlipidemia before initiating therapy

Hepatic dysfunction

Use caution in recent liver disease, symptoms of liver disease; discontinue therapy if
markedly elevated CK levels occur or myopathy is diagnosed or suspected; muscle
symptoms and CK increases may resolve if therapy is discontinued

Increases in serum transaminases reported with therapy; in most cases, these
changes appeared soon after initiation, were transient, were not accompanied by
symptoms, and resolved or improved on continued therapy or after a brief
interruption in therapy

Persistent increases to more than three times the ULN in serum transaminases have
occurred; marked persistent increases of hepatic transaminases have also occurred;
there have been rare postmarketing reports of fatal and non-fatal hepatic failure in
patients taking this therapy and other statins

Patients who consume substantial quantities of alcohol and/or have a history of
liver disease may be at increased risk for hepatic injury

Consider liver enzyme testing before therapy initiation and when clinically indicated
thereafter

Therapy is contraindicated in patients with acute liver failure or decompensated
cirrhosis; if serious hepatic injury with clinical symptoms and/or hyperbilirubinemia
or jaundice occurs, promptly discontinue therapy

Immune-mediated necrotizing myopathy

Immune-mediated necrotizing myopathy (IMNM), an autoimmune myopathy,
reported with statin use, including reports of recurrence when the same or a
different statin was administered

IMNM is characterized by muscle biopsy showing necrotizing myopathy without
significant inflammation improvement with immunosuppressive agents, proximal
muscle weakness, and elevated serum creatine kinase, which persist despite
discontinuation of statin treatment

Treatment with immunosuppressive agents may be required

Advice all patients starting therapy or whose dose is being increased, about the risk
of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis

Patients should report promptly any unexplained muscle pain, tenderness, or
weakness particularly if accompanied by malaise or fever or if muscle signs and
symptoms persist after discontinuing therapy; additional neuromuscular and
serologic testing may be necessary

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/pravachol-pravastatin-342460 16/20



6/22/26, 5:12 PM Pravastatin dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Therapy should be discontinued immediately if myopathy is diagnosed or suspected

Discontinue therapy if markedly elevated creatine kinase (CK) levels occur or if
myopathy diagnosed or suspected

Therapy should be temporarily withheld in any patient experiencing an acute or
serious condition predisposing to development of renal failure secondary to
rhabdomyolysis, eg, sepsis; hypotension; dehydration; major surgery; trauma;
severe metabolic, endocrine, and electrolyte disorders; or uncontrolled epilepsy

Consider risk of IMNM carefully prior to initiation of a different statin

If therapy is initiated with a different statin, monitor for signs and symptoms of
IMNM

Additional neuromuscular and serologic testing may be necessary

Treatment with immunosuppressive agents may be required

Consider risk of IMNM carefully prior to initiation of a different statin

If therapy is initiated with a different statin, monitor for signs and symptoms of
IMNM

Drug interaction overview

Not recommended in patients taking gemfibrozil; there are pravastatin dosage
restrictions for patients taking cyclosporin and select macrolide antibiotics

The following drugs when used concomitantly with pravastatin may increase risk of
myopathy and rhabdomyolysis, niacin, fibrates, and colchicine

Pregnancy & Lactation

Pregnancy

Discontinue therapy when pregnancy recognized; alternatively, consider ongoing
therapeutic needs of individual patient; therapy decreases synthesis of cholesterol and
possibly other biologically active substances derived from cholesterol; therefore, therapy
may cause fetal harm when administered to pregnant patients based on mechanism of
action

Treatment of hyperlipidemia is not generally necessary during pregnancy;
atherosclerosis is a chronic process and discontinuation of lipid-lowering drugs during
pregnancy should have little impact on outcome of long-term therapy of primary
hyperlipidemia for most patients

Available data from case series and prospective and retrospective observational cohort
studies over decades of use with statins in pregnant women have not identified a drug-
associated risk of major congenital malformations

Published data from prospective and retrospective observational cohort studies with use
in pregnant women are insufficient to determine if there is drug-associated risk of
miscarriage

Animal data

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/pravachol-pravastatin-342460 17/20



6/22/26, 5:12 PM Pravastatin dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

In animal reproduction studies, no evidence of fetal malformations was seen in
pregnant rats or rabbits orally administered pravastatin during period of
organogenesis at doses that resulted in 10 times and 120 times, respectively, the
human exposure at maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) of 80 mg/day,
based on body surface area (mg/m2)

An imbalance in some fetal skeletal variations increased offspring mortality, and
developmental delays occurred when pregnant rats were exposed to 10 times to
12 times MRHD during organogenesis to parturition

Contraception

Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment

FDA MedWatch

On July 20, 2021, the FDA request to remove the contraindication against HMG-
CoA reductase inhibitors in pregnant females

Despite the changes, most females found to be pregnant should stop therapy

Lactation

Based on one lactation study in published literature, pravastatin is present in human
milk; there is no available information on effects of drug on breastfed infant or effects of
drug on milk production

Statins, decrease cholesterol synthesis and possibly synthesis of other biologically active
substances derived from cholesterol and may cause harm to breastfed infant

Because of potential for serious adverse reactions in breastfed infant, based on
mechanism of action, advise patients that breastfeeding is not recommended during
treatment

FDA MedWatch

On July 20, 2021, the FDA request to remove the contraindication against HMG-
CoA reductase inhibitors in pregnant females

Breastfeeding is still not recommended if taking statins; drug may still pass through
milk and pose a risk breastfed children

For patients with lower risk, temporarily stop statin therapy until breastfeeding
ends

Patients who are at high risk of heart attack or stroke who require statins after
delivery should not breastfeed and should use alternatives such as infant formula

Pregnancy Categories

A: Generally acceptable. Controlled studies in pregnant women show no evidence of
fetal risk.

B: May be acceptable. Either animal studies show no risk but human studies not available
or animal studies showed minor risks and human studies done and showed no risk.

C: Use with caution if benefits outweigh risks. Animal studies show risk and human
studies not available or neither animal nor human studies done.

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/pravachol-pravastatin-342460 18/20



6/22/26, 5:12 PM Pravastatin dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
D: Use in LIFE-THREATENING emergencies when no safer drug available. Positive
evidence of human fetal risk.

X: Do not use in pregnancy. Risks involved outweigh potential benefits. Safer alternatives
exist.

NA: Information not available.

Pharmacology

Mechanism of Action

HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor; inhibits the rate-limiting step in cholesterol biosynthesis
by competitively inhibiting HMG-CoA reductase

Absorption

Bioavailability: 17%

Onset: 2 weeks

Peak effect: 4 weeks

Peak serum time: 1-1.5 hr

Distribution

Protein bound: 43-55%

Vd: 0.46 L/kg

Metabolism

Undergoes extensive first-pass extraction by liver

Metabolites: 3-alpha-hydroxy isomer and 3-alpha, 5-beta, 6-beta trihydroxy metabolite
(inactive)

Elimination

Half-life: 2.6-3.2 hr

Excretion: Feces (71%); urine (<20%)

Pharmacogenomics

SLCO1B1 (OATP1B1) CC genotype significantly increases AUCs of parent drug and
metabolites compared with the CT or TT genotypes

This polymorphism is proposed to reduce transport into the liver, the main site of statin
metabolism and elimination, resulting in elevated plasma concentrations

SLCO1B1 polymorphism is thought to have a lesser effect on the more hydrophilic
statins (eg, rosuvastatin, fluvastatin), compared with more those that are more lipophilic
(eg, atorvastatin, pravastatin, simvastatin)

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/pravachol-pravastatin-342460 19/20



6/22/26, 5:12 PM Pravastatin dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Other genetic polymorphisms of elimination (eg, CYP450, P-glycoprotein) for each
individual drug must also be considered to explain variability for statin clearance among
patients that exhibit SCLO1B1 polymorphism

SLCO1B1 CC genotype is most common in Caucasians and Asians (15%)

Risk of myopathy is 2.6- to 4.3-fold higher if the C allele is present and 16.9-fold higher
in CC homozygotes compared with TT homozygotes

Genetic testing laboratories

Optivia Biotechnology, Inc (https://optiviabio.com)

Formulary

Adding plans allows you to compare formulary status to other drugs in the same class.

Formulary information is available for health plans only in the United States.

Medscape prescription drug monographs are based on FDA-approved labeling information, unless otherwise noted,
combined with additional data derived from primary medical literature.

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/pravachol-pravastatin-342460 20/20