6/22/26, 5:12 PM Crestor, Ezallor Sprinkle (rosuvastatin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
This site is intended for healthcare professionals

rosuvastatin (Rx)
Brand and Other Names: Crestor, Ezallor Sprinkle
Classes: Lipid-Lowering Agents, Statins; HMG-CoA Reductase Inhibitors

Dosing & Uses

ADULT
Dosage Forms & Strengths

tablet (Crestor)

5mg

10mg

20mg

40mg

Hypercholesterolemia

Indicated to reduce risk of major adverse cardiovascular (CV) events (CV death, nonfatal
myocardial infarction, nonfatal stroke, or an arterial revascularization procedure) in adults
who are at increased risk for CV events

Primary Hypercholesterolemia

Indicated as adjunctive therapy to diet and exercise to reduce LDL and slow the
progression to atherosclerosis in adults with primary hypercholesterolemia

5-20 mg PO daily; not to exceed 40 mg/day

Heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia

Indicated as adjunctive therapy to diet and exercise to reduce LDL and slow the
progression to atherosclerosis in adults with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia
(HeFH)

5-20 mg PO daily; not to exceed 40 mg/day

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/crestor-ezallor-sprinkle-rosuvastatin-342467 1/22



6/22/26, 5:12 PM Crestor, Ezallor Sprinkle (rosuvastatin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Homozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia

Indicated as adjunctive therapy to diet and exercise to reduce LDL and slow the
progression to atherosclerosis in adults with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia
(HoFH)

20 mg PO daily; not to exceed 40 mg/day

Hypertriglyceridemia

Indicated as adjunctive therapy to diet in adults with hypertriglyceridemia

5-20 mg PO daily; not to exceed 40 mg/day

Primary Dysbetalipoproteinemia

Indicated as adjunctive therapy to diet in adults with primary dysbetalipoproteinemia

5-20 mg PO daily; not to exceed 40 mg/day

Dosage Modifications

Dosing in Asian patients

Consider starting at 5 mg PO daily, owing to increased rosuvastatin plasma
concentrations

May increase up to 20 mg/day if patients are not adequately controlled

Renal impairment

Mild or moderate (CrCl ≥30 mL/min/1.73m²): No dosage adjustment necessary

Severe (CrCl <30 mL/min/1.73m²) and not on hemodialysis: Decrease starting dose
to 5 mg PO daily; not to exceed 10 mg/day

Hepatic impairment

Active liver disease: Contraindicated

Chronic alcoholic liver disease: Use with caution; known to increase rosuvastatin
exposure

Dosage adjustment due to drug interactions

Avoid concomitant use with any of the following:

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/crestor-ezallor-sprinkle-rosuvastatin-342467 2/22



6/22/26, 5:12 PM Crestor, Ezallor Sprinkle (rosuvastatin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Ledipasvir/sofosbuvir

Sofosbuvir/velpatasvir/voxilaprevir

Avoid concomitant use; if unavoidable, follow specific instructions:
Gemfibrozil: Initiate at 5 mg/day; do not exceed 10 mg/day

Tafamidis: Initiate at 5 mg/day; do not exceed 20 mg/day

Do not exceed dose of 5 mg/day when co-administered with any of the following:
Belumosudil

Cyclosporine

Darolutamide

Do not exceed dose of 10 mg/day when co-administered with any of the following:
Atazanavir/ritonavir

Capmatinib

Elbasvir/grazoprevir

Enasidenib

Glecaprevir/pibrentasvir

Lopinavir/ritonavir

Momelotinib

Regorafenib

Simaprevir

Sofosbuvir/velpatasvir

Teriflunomide

Do not exceed dose of 20 mg/day when co-administered with any of the following:
Febuxostat

Fostamatinib

Ticagrelor

Dosing Considerations

Recommended dose depends on patients' indication for use, LDL-C levels, and individual
CV risk

After initiation or upon titration, analyze lipid levels as early as 4 weeks and adjust
dosage accordingly

PEDIATRIC
Dosage Forms & Strengths

tablet (Crestor)

5mg

10mg

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/crestor-ezallor-sprinkle-rosuvastatin-342467 3/22



6/22/26, 5:12 PM Crestor, Ezallor Sprinkle (rosuvastatin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

20mg

40mg

Familial Hypercholesterolemia

Heterozygous

Adjunctive therapy to diet and exercise to reduce LDL cholesterol levels in children and
adolescents (8-17 years) with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH)

<8 years: Safety and efficacy not established

8 to <10 years: 5-10 mg PO daily

10-17 years: 5-20 mg PO daily; may adjust dose at intervals of at least 4 wk; not to
exceed 20 mg/day

Homozygous

Adjunctive therapy to diet and exercise to reduce LDL cholesterol levels in children and
adolescents (7-17 years) with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HoFH)

<7 years: Safety and efficacy not established

7-17 years: 20 mg PO daily

Dosage Modifications

Dosing in Asian patients

Consider starting at 5 mg PO daily, owing to increased rosuvastatin plasma
concentrations

May increase up to 20 mg/day if patients are not adequately controlled

Renal impairment

Mild or moderate (CrCl ≥30 mL/min/1.73m²): No dosage adjustment necessary

Severe (CrCl <30 mL/min/1.73m²) and not on hemodialysis: Decrease starting dose
to 5 mg PO daily; not to exceed 10 mg/day

Hepatic impairment

Active liver disease: Contraindicated

Chronic alcoholic liver disease: Use with caution; known to increase rosuvastatin
exposure

Dosage adjustment due to drug interactions

Avoid concomitant use with any of the following:
Ledipasvir/sofosbuvir

Sofosbuvir/velpatasvir/voxilaprevir

Avoid concomitant use; if unavoidable, follow specific instructions:
Gemfibrozil: Initiate at 5 mg/day; do not exceed 10 mg/day

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/crestor-ezallor-sprinkle-rosuvastatin-342467 4/22



6/22/26, 5:12 PM Crestor, Ezallor Sprinkle (rosuvastatin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Tafamidis: Initiate at 5 mg/day; do not exceed 20 mg/day

Do not exceed dose of 5 mg/day when co-administered with any of the following:
Belumosudil

Cyclosporine

Darolutamide

Do not exceed dose of 10 mg/day when co-administered with any of the following:
Atazanavir/ritonavir

Capmatinib

Elbasvir/grazoprevir

Enasidenib

Glecaprevir/pibrentasvir

Lopinavir/ritonavir

Momelotinib

Regorafenib

Simaprevir

Sofosbuvir/velpatasvir

Teriflunomide

Do not exceed dose of 20 mg/day when co-administered with any of the following:
Febuxostat

Fostamatinib

Ticagrelor

Dosing Considerations

Recommended dose depends on patient’s indication for use, LDL-C levels, and individual
CV risk

After initiation or upon titration, analyze lipid levels as early as 4 weeks and adjust
dosage accordingly

GERIATRIC
Clinical studies in adults ≥65 years identified no clinically significant differences in safety
or effectiveness when compared with younger adults

Those ≥65 years of age are at increased risk for myopathy and rhabdomyolysis; use
caution with dose selection in this age group and monitor for signs and symptoms of
myopathy

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/crestor-ezallor-sprinkle-rosuvastatin-342467 5/22



6/22/26, 5:12 PM Crestor, Ezallor Sprinkle (rosuvastatin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Interactions

Interaction Checker

Enter a drug name to check for any interactions. Type a drug, OTC, or herbal  and
rosuvastatin
No Interactions Found
Interactions Found
Contraindicated

Serious

Significant - Monitor Closely

Minor

All Interactions Sort By: Severity
Contraindicated (0)

Serious (13)

asciminib
asciminib increases levels of rosuvastatin by Other (see comment). Avoid or Use
Alternate Drug. Comment: Asciminib inhibits OATP1B1 and BCRP. Avoid co-
adminstration; use alternative HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor.

ceftobiprole medocaril sodium
ceftobiprole medocaril sodium increases levels of rosuvastatin by Other (see
comment). Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Comment: Ceftobiprole inhibits OATP1B1;
consider temporarily suspending rosuvastatin for duration of ceftobiprole therapy.

colchicine
colchicine, rosuvastatin. Either increases toxicity of the other by pharmacodynamic
synergism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Concomitant use of rosuvastatin with
colchicine increases risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis; consider alternatives. If
co-administered, monitor CK and for signs and symptoms of
myopathy/rhabdomyolysis, particularly during initiation or titration of either drug.

cyclosporine
cyclosporine increases levels of rosuvastatin by Other (see comment). Avoid or Use
Alternate Drug. Comment: Cyclosporine inhibits OATP1B1; avoid co-administration.
If concomitant use is unavoidable, rosuvastatin dose should not exceed 5 mg/day;
monitor CK and for signs and symptoms of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis.

fenofibrate
fenofibrate, rosuvastatin. Either increases toxicity of the other by pharmacodynamic
synergism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Concomitant use of fenofibrate and
rosuvastatin increases risk for myopathy and rhabdomyolysis; consider alternatives.
If concomitant use is unavoidable, initiate rosuvastatin at a low dose; monitor CK

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/crestor-ezallor-sprinkle-rosuvastatin-342467 6/22



6/22/26, 5:12 PM Crestor, Ezallor Sprinkle (rosuvastatin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

and for signs and symptoms of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis, particularly during
initiation or titration of either drug.

fenofibrate micronized
fenofibrate micronized, rosuvastatin. Either increases toxicity of the other by
pharmacodynamic synergism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Concomitant use of
fenofibrate and rosuvastatin increases risk for myopathy and rhabdomyolysis;
consider alternatives. If concomitant use is unavoidable, initiate rosuvastatin at a
low dose; monitor CK and for signs and symptoms of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis,
particularly during initiation or titration of either drug.

fenofibric acid
fenofibric acid, rosuvastatin. Either increases toxicity of the other by
pharmacodynamic synergism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Concomitant use of
fenofibric acid and rosuvastatin increases risk for myopathy and rhabdomyolysis;
consider alternatives. If concomitant use is unavoidable, initiate rosuvastatin at a
low dose; monitor CK and for signs and symptoms of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis,
particularly during initiation or titration of either drug.

gemfibrozil
gemfibrozil, rosuvastatin. Either increases toxicity of the other by unspecified
interaction mechanism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Concomitant use of
gemfibrozil and rosuvastatin increases risk for myopathy and rhabdomyolysis; avoid
co-administration. If concomitant use is unavoidable, initiate rosuvastatin at 5
mg/day and do not exceed 10 mg/day. Monitor CK and for signs and symptoms of
myopathy/rhabdomyolysis.

ledipasvir/sofosbuvir
ledipasvir/sofosbuvir increases levels of rosuvastatin by Other (see comment).
Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Comment: Ledipasvir inhibits OATP1B1 and BRCP.
Avoid co-adminstration; use alternative HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor.

niacin
niacin, rosuvastatin. pharmacodynamic synergism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
Concomitant use of rosuvastatin with >1g/day niacin increases risk of myopathy and
rhabdomyolysis; consider alternatives. If co-administered, monitor CK and for signs
and symptoms of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis, particularly during initiation or titration
of either drug.

red yeast rice
rosuvastatin, red yeast rice. Either increases toxicity of the other by Other (see
comment). Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Comment: Red yeast rice contains
monacolin K (lovastatin). Avoid concomitant use due to risk for additive toxicity.

tafamidis
tafamidis increases levels of rosuvastatin by Other (see comment). Avoid or Use
Alternate Drug. Comment: Tafamidis inhibits BCRP; avoid co-administration. If
concomitant use is unavoidable, initiate rosuvastatin at 5 mg/day and do not exceed
20 mg/day. Monitor CK and for signs and symptoms of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis.

voxilaprevir
voxilaprevir increases levels of rosuvastatin by Other (see comment). Avoid or Use
Alternate Drug. Comment: Voxilaprevir inhibits OATP1B1 and BRCP. Avoid

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/crestor-ezallor-sprinkle-rosuvastatin-342467 7/22



6/22/26, 5:12 PM Crestor, Ezallor Sprinkle (rosuvastatin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

concomitant use of rosuvastatin with sofosbuvir/velpatasavir/voxilaprevir; use
alternative HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor.

Monitor Closely (74)

acalabrutinib
acalabrutinib increases levels of rosuvastatin by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: Acalabrutinib inhibits BCRP. Use caution; monitor CK
and for signs and symptoms of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis.

aluminum hydroxide
aluminum hydroxide decreases levels of rosuvastatin by cation binding in GI tract.
Use Caution/Monitor. Administer rosuvastatin at least 2 hours before aluminum
hydroxide.

apalutamide
apalutamide decreases levels of rosuvastatin by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: Apalutamide induces OATP1B1 and BCRP.
Concomitant use may decrease rosuvastatin levels. Monitor for efficacy and adjust
rosuvastatin dose as needed.

atazanavir
atazanavir increases levels of rosuvastatin by Other (see comment). Modify
Therapy/Monitor Closely. Comment: Atazanavir inhibits OATP1B1. If using
rosuvastatin concomitantly with atazanavir, atazanavir/ritonavir or
atazanavir/cobicistat, do not exceed rosuvastatin dose of 10 mg/day. Monitor CK and
for signs and symptoms of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis.

belumosudil
belumosudil increases levels of rosuvastatin by Other (see comment). Modify
Therapy/Monitor Closely. Comment: Belumosudil inhibits OATP1B1 and BCRP,
increasing rosuvastatin levels. Do not exceed rosuvastatin dose of 5 mg/day;
monitor CK and for signs and symptoms of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis.

capmatinib
capmatinib increases levels of rosuvastatin by Other (see comment). Modify
Therapy/Monitor Closely. Comment: Capmatinib inhibits BRCP. Do not exceed
rosuvastatin dose of 10 mg/day. Monitor CK and for signs and symptoms of
myopathy/rhabdomyolysis.

carbamazepine
carbamazepine decreases levels of rosuvastatin by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: Carbamazepine induces OATP1B1; concomitant use
may decrease rosuvastatin levels. Monitor for efficacy and adjust rosuvastatin dose
as needed.

cholestyramine
cholestyramine decreases levels of rosuvastatin by cation binding in GI tract. Use
Caution/Monitor. Give rosuvastatin at least 1 hour before or 4-6 hours after
cholestyramine.

clarithromycin

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/crestor-ezallor-sprinkle-rosuvastatin-342467 8/22



6/22/26, 5:12 PM Crestor, Ezallor Sprinkle (rosuvastatin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

clarithromycin increases levels of rosuvastatin by Other (see comment). Modify
Therapy/Monitor Closely. Comment: Clarithromycin inhibits OATP1B1; use caution.
Monitor CK and for signs and symptoms of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis.

clopidogrel
clopidogrel increases levels of rosuvastatin by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: Clopidogrel inhibits BCRP. Use caution; monitor CK and
for signs and symptoms of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis.

cobicistat
cobicistat increases levels of rosuvastatin by Other (see comment). Modify
Therapy/Monitor Closely. Comment: Cobicistat inhibits BCRP. If cobicistat is co-
administered with darunavir, do not exceed rosuvastatin dose of 20 mg/day. If
cobicistat is co-administered with atazanavir (OATP1B1 inhibitor), do not exceed
rosuvastatin dose of 10 mg/day. Monitor CK and for signs and symptoms of
myopathy/rhabdomyolysis.

colestipol
colestipol decreases levels of rosuvastatin by cation binding in GI tract. Use
Caution/Monitor. Give rosuvastatin at least 1 hour before or 4 hours after colestipol.

danicopan
danicopan increases levels of rosuvastatin by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: Danicopan inhibits BCRP. Do not exceed rosuvastatin
dose of 10 mg/day. Monitor CK and for signs and symptoms of
myopathy/rhabdomyolysis.

daptomycin
rosuvastatin, daptomycin. Either increases toxicity of the other by Other (see
comment). Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Comment: Concomitant use of
daptomycin and rosuvastatin may increase CK, possibly increasing risk for
myopathy; consider temporary suspension of rosuvastatin during daptomycin
therapy.

darolutamide
darolutamide increases levels of rosuvastatin by Other (see comment). Modify
Therapy/Monitor Closely. Comment: Darolutamide inhibits OATP1B1 and BCRP,
increasing rosuvastatin levels. Do not exceed rosuvastatin dose of 5 mg/day;
monitor CK and for signs and symptoms of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis.

elacestrant
elacestrant increases levels of rosuvastatin by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: Elacestrant inhibits BCRP. Use caution; monitor CK and
for signs and symptoms of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis.

elafibranor
rosuvastatin, elafibranor. Either increases toxicity of the other by Other (see
comment). Use Caution/Monitor. Comment: Concomitant use of elafibranor and
rosuvastatin may increase CK, possibly increasing risk for myopathy. Monitor CK
and for signs and symptoms of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis.

elagolix

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/crestor-ezallor-sprinkle-rosuvastatin-342467 9/22



6/22/26, 5:12 PM Crestor, Ezallor Sprinkle (rosuvastatin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

elagolix decreases levels of rosuvastatin by unknown mechanism. Use
Caution/Monitor. Concomitant use may decrease rosuvastatin levels. Monitor for
efficacy and adjust rosuvastatin dose as needed.

eltrombopag
eltrombopag increases levels of rosuvastatin by Other (see comment). Modify
Therapy/Monitor Closely. Comment: Eltrombopag inhibits OATP1B1 and BCRP.
Reduce rosuvastatin dose by up to 50%; monitor CK and for signs and symptoms of
myopathy/rhabdomyolysis.

eluxadoline
eluxadoline increases levels of rosuvastatin by Other (see comment). Modify
Therapy/Monitor Closely. Comment: Eluxadoline inhibits OATP1B1 and BCRP. Use
lowest effective dose of rosuvastatin; monitor CK and for signs and symptoms of
myopathy/rhabdomyolysis.

enasidenib
enasidenib increases levels of rosuvastatin by Other (see comment). Modify
Therapy/Monitor Closely. Comment: Enasidenib inhibits OATP1B1 and BRCP. Do
not exceed rosuvastatin dose of 10 mg/day. Monitor CK and for signs and
symptoms of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis.

encorafenib
encorafenib increases levels of rosuvastatin by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: Encorafenib inhibits OATP1B1 and BCRP. Use caution;
monitor CK and for signs and symptoms of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis.

ensitrelvir
ensitrelvir increases levels of rosuvastatin by decreasing metabolism. Use
Caution/Monitor. Prescribing information describes that a single dose of ensitrelvir
increased rosuvastatin AUC by 1.65-fold.

eslicarbazepine acetate
eslicarbazepine acetate decreases levels of rosuvastatin by unknown mechanism.
Use Caution/Monitor. Concomitant use may decrease rosuvastatin levels. Monitor
for efficacy and adjust rosuvastatin dose as needed.

febuxostat
febuxostat increases levels of rosuvastatin by Other (see comment). Modify
Therapy/Monitor Closely. Comment: Febuxostat inhibits BRCP. Do not exceed
rosuvastatin dose of 20 mg/day. Monitor CK and for signs and symptoms of
myopathy/rhabdomyolysis.

fostamatinib
fostamatinib increases levels of rosuvastatin by Other (see comment). Modify
Therapy/Monitor Closely. Comment: Fostamatinib inhibits BRCP. Do not exceed
rosuvastatin dose of 20 mg/day. Monitor CK and for signs and symptoms of
myopathy/rhabdomyolysis.

fostemsavir
fostemsavir increases levels of rosuvastatin by Other (see comment). Modify
Therapy/Monitor Closely. Comment: Fostemsavir is a prodrug of temsavir, which

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/crestor-ezallor-sprinkle-rosuvastatin-342467 10/22



6/22/26, 5:12 PM Crestor, Ezallor Sprinkle (rosuvastatin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

inhibits OATP1B1 and BCRP. Use lowest effective dose of rosuvastatin; monitor CK
and for signs and symptoms of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis.

gilteritinib
gilteritinib increases levels of rosuvastatin by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: Gilteritinib inhibits BCRP. Use caution; monitor CK and
for signs and symptoms of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis.

glecaprevir/pibrentasvir
glecaprevir/pibrentasvir increases levels of rosuvastatin by Other (see comment).
Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Comment: Glecaprevir and pibrentasvir inhibit
OATP1B1 and BRCP. Initiate rosuvastatin at 5 mg/day, do not exceed 10 mg/day.
Monitor CK and for signs and symptoms of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis.

ibrutinib
ibrutinib increases levels of rosuvastatin by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: Ibrutinib inhibits BCRP. Use caution; monitor CK and for
signs and symptoms of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis.

imatinib
imatinib increases levels of rosuvastatin by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: Imatinib inhibits BCRP. Use caution; monitor CK and for
signs and symptoms of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis.

imlunestrant
imlunestrant increases levels of rosuvastatin by Other (see comment). Modify
Therapy/Monitor Closely. Comment: Imlunestrant inhibits BCRP. Use lowest
effective dose of rosuvastatin; monitor CK and for signs and symptoms of
myopathy/rhabdomyolysis.

itraconazole
itraconazole increases levels of rosuvastatin by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: Itraconazole inhibits BCRP. Use caution; monitor CK and
for signs and symptoms of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis.

lanthanum carbonate
lanthanum carbonate decreases levels of rosuvastatin by cation binding in GI tract.
Use Caution/Monitor. Give rosuvastatin at least 2 hours before or 2 hours after
lanthanum.

lazertinib
lazertinib increases levels of rosuvastatin by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: Lazertinib inhibits BCRP. Use lowest effective dose of
rosuvastatin; monitor CK and for signs and symptoms of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis.

leflunomide
leflunomide increases levels of rosuvastatin by Other (see comment). Modify
Therapy/Monitor Closely. Comment: Leflunomide inhibits OATP1B1 and BCRP. Do
not exceed rosuvastatin dose of 10 mg/day. Monitor CK and for signs and
symptoms of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis.

leniolisib

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/crestor-ezallor-sprinkle-rosuvastatin-342467 11/22



6/22/26, 5:12 PM Crestor, Ezallor Sprinkle (rosuvastatin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

leniolisib increases levels of rosuvastatin by Other (see comment). Modify
Therapy/Monitor Closely. Comment: Leniolisib inhibits OATP1B1 and BCRP. When
possible, use alternative HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor.

letermovir
letermovir increases levels of rosuvastatin by Other (see comment). Modify
Therapy/Monitor Closely. Comment: Letermovir inhibits OATP1B1; concomitant use
may require rosuvastatin dose reduction. Monitor CK and for signs and symptoms of
myopathy/rhabdomyolysis.

lopinavir
lopinavir increases levels of rosuvastatin by unknown mechanism. Modify
Therapy/Monitor Closely. Lopinavir/ritonavir may increase rosuvastatin levels.
Initiate rosuvastatin at 5 mg/day, do not exceed 10 mg/day. Monitor CK and for
signs and symptoms of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis.

magnesium chloride
magnesium chloride decreases levels of rosuvastatin by cation binding in GI tract.
Use Caution/Monitor. Administer rosuvastatin at least 2 hours before magnesium
chloride.

magnesium gluconate
magnesium gluconate decreases levels of rosuvastatin by cation binding in GI tract.
Use Caution/Monitor. Administer rosuvastatin at least 2 hours before magnesium
gluconate.

magnesium oxide
magnesium oxide decreases levels of rosuvastatin by cation binding in GI tract. Use
Caution/Monitor. Administer rosuvastatin at least 2 hours before magnesium oxide.

maribavir
maribavir increases levels of rosuvastatin by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: Maribavir inhibits BCRP. Use caution; monitor CK and
for signs and symptoms of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis.

midostaurin
midostaurin increases levels of rosuvastatin by Other (see comment). Modify
Therapy/Monitor Closely. Comment: Midostaurin inhibits BCRP. Use lowest effective
dose of rosuvastatin; monitor CK and for signs and symptoms of
myopathy/rhabdomyolysis.

momelotinib
momelotinib increases levels of rosuvastatin by Other (see comment). Modify
Therapy/Monitor Closely. Comment: Momelotinib inhibits BRCP. Do not exceed
rosuvastatin dose of 10 mg/day. Monitor CK and for signs and symptoms of
myopathy/rhabdomyolysis.

nirmatrelvir/ritonavir
nirmatrelvir/ritonavir increases levels of rosuvastatin by Other (see comment).
Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Comment: Nirmatrelvir/ritonavir inhibits OATP1B1
and BCRP. Consider temporary discontinuation of rosuvastatin during treatment
with nirmatrelvir/ritonavir.

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/crestor-ezallor-sprinkle-rosuvastatin-342467 12/22



6/22/26, 5:12 PM Crestor, Ezallor Sprinkle (rosuvastatin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

omaveloxolone
omaveloxolone decreases levels of rosuvastatin by unknown mechanism. Use
Caution/Monitor. Concomitant use may decrease rosuvastatin levels. Monitor for
efficacy and adjust rosuvastatin dose as needed.

osimertinib
osimertinib increases levels of rosuvastatin by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: Osimertinib inhibits BCRP. Use caution; monitor CK and
for signs and symptoms of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis.

oteseconazole
oteseconazole increases levels of rosuvastatin by Other (see comment). Modify
Therapy/Monitor Closely. Comment: Oteseconazole inhibits BCRP. Use lowest
effective dose of rosuvastatin; monitor CK and for signs and symptoms of
myopathy/rhabdomyolysis.

pacritinib
pacritinib increases levels of rosuvastatin by Other (see comment). Modify
Therapy/Monitor Closely. Comment: Pacritinib inhibits BCRP. Do not exceed
rosuvastatin dose of 20 mg/day. Monitor CK and for signs and symptoms of
myopathy/rhabdomyolysis.

pirtobrutinib
pirtobrutinib increases levels of rosuvastatin by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: Pirtobrutinib inhibits BCRP. Use caution; monitor CK
and for signs and symptoms of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis.

quizartinib
quizartinib increases levels of rosuvastatin by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: Quizartinib inhibits BCRP. Use lowest effective dose of
rosuvastatin; monitor CK and for signs and symptoms of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis.

regorafenib
regorafenib increases levels of rosuvastatin by Other (see comment). Modify
Therapy/Monitor Closely. Comment: Regorafenib inhibits BRCP. Do not exceed
rosuvastatin dose of 10 mg/day. Monitor CK and for signs and symptoms of
myopathy/rhabdomyolysis.

resmetirom
resmetirom increases levels of rosuvastatin by Other (see comment). Modify
Therapy/Monitor Closely. Comment: Resmetirom inhibits OATP1B1 and BCRP. Do
not exceed rosuvastatin dose of 20 mg/day. Monitor CK and for signs and
symptoms of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis.

rifampin
rifampin decreases levels of rosuvastatin by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: Rifampin induces OATP1B1; concomitant use may
decrease rosuvastatin levels. Monitor for efficacy and adjust rosuvastatin dose as
needed.

rilzabrutinib
rilzabrutinib increases levels of rosuvastatin by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: Rilzabrutinib inhibits OATP1B1 and BCRP. Use caution;

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/crestor-ezallor-sprinkle-rosuvastatin-342467 13/22



6/22/26, 5:12 PM Crestor, Ezallor Sprinkle (rosuvastatin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

monitor CK and for signs and symptoms of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis.

ritonavir
ritonavir increases levels of rosuvastatin by Other (see comment). Modify
Therapy/Monitor Closely. Comment: Ritonavir inhibits OATP1B1 and BCRP; use
lowest effective dose of rosuvastatin. If using ritonavir-containing combination
regimen, refer to guidance for combination agent to identify max rosuvastatin dose.
Monitor CK and for signs and symptoms of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis.

rolapitant
rolapitant increases levels of rosuvastatin by Other (see comment). Modify
Therapy/Monitor Closely. Comment: Rolapitant inhibits BCRP. Use lowest effective
dose of rosuvastatin; monitor CK and for signs and symptoms of
myopathy/rhabdomyolysis.

selpercatinib
selpercatinib increases levels of rosuvastatin by Other (see comment). Modify
Therapy/Monitor Closely. Comment: Selpercatinib inhibits BCRP. Use lowest
effective dose of rosuvastatin; monitor CK and for signs and symptoms of
myopathy/rhabdomyolysis.

sevabertinib
sevabertinib increases levels of rosuvastatin by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: Sevabertinib inhibits BCRP. Use caution; monitor CK
and for signs and symptoms of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis.

sotorasib
sotorasib increases levels of rosuvastatin by Other (see comment). Modify
Therapy/Monitor Closely. Comment: Sotorasib inhibits BCRP. Use lowest effective
dose of rosuvastatin; monitor CK and for signs and symptoms of
myopathy/rhabdomyolysis.

stiripentol
stiripentol increases levels of rosuvastatin by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: Stiripentol inhibits BCRP. Use caution; monitor CK and
for signs and symptoms of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis.

sunvozertinib
sunvozertinib increases levels of rosuvastatin by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: Sunvozertinib inhibits BCRP. Use caution; monitor CK
and for signs and symptoms of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis.

tedizolid
tedizolid increases levels of rosuvastatin by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: Tedizolid inhibits BCRP. Use caution; monitor CK and
for signs and symptoms of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis.

teriflunomide
teriflunomide increases levels of rosuvastatin by Other (see comment). Modify
Therapy/Monitor Closely. Comment: Teriflunomide inhibits OATP1B1 and BRCP. Do
not exceed rosuvastatin dose of 10 mg/day. Monitor CK and for signs and
symptoms of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis.

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/crestor-ezallor-sprinkle-rosuvastatin-342467 14/22



6/22/26, 5:12 PM Crestor, Ezallor Sprinkle (rosuvastatin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

ticagrelor
ticagrelor increases levels of rosuvastatin by Other (see comment). Modify
Therapy/Monitor Closely. Comment: Ticagrelor inhibits BRCP. Do not exceed
rosuvastatin dose of 20 mg/day; in those at increased risk for rhabdomyolysis,
consider dose below 20 mg/day. Monitor CK and for signs and symptoms of
myopathy/rhabdomyolysis.

turmeric
turmeric increases levels of rosuvastatin by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: Curcumin, a constituent of turmeric, inhibits BCRP. Use
caution; monitor CK and for signs and symptoms of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis.

vadadustat
vadadustat increases levels of rosuvastatin by Other (see comment). Modify
Therapy/Monitor Closely. Comment: Vadadustat inhibits BCRP. Do not exceed
rosuvastatin dose of 5 mg/day. Monitor CK and for signs and symptoms of
myopathy/rhabdomyolysis.

vanzacaftor/tezacaftor/deutivacaftor
vanzacaftor/tezacaftor/deutivacaftor increases levels of rosuvastatin by Other (see
comment). Use Caution/Monitor. Comment: Vanzacaftor and deutivacaftor inhibit
BCRP. Use caution; monitor CK and for signs and symptoms of
myopathy/rhabdomyolysis.

velpatasvir
velpatasvir increases levels of rosuvastatin by Other (see comment). Modify
Therapy/Monitor Closely. Comment: Velpatasavir inhibits OATP1B1 and BRCP.
Avoid concomitant use of rosuvastatin with sofosbuvir/velpatasavir/voxilaprevir. If
co-administering rosuvastatin with sofosbuvir/velpatasavir, initiate rosuvastatin at 5
mg/day, do not exceed 10 mg/day. Monitor CK and for signs and symptoms of
myopathy/rhabdomyolysis.

vimseltinib
vimseltinib increases levels of rosuvastatin by Other (see comment). Modify
Therapy/Monitor Closely. Comment: Vimseltinib inhibits BCRP. Use lowest effective
dose of rosuvastatin; monitor CK and for signs and symptoms of
myopathy/rhabdomyolysis.

voclosporin
voclosporin increases levels of rosuvastatin by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: Voclosporin inhibits OATP1B1. Use caution; monitor CK
and for signs and symptoms of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis.

warfarin
rosuvastatin increases effects of warfarin by unknown mechanism. Modify
Therapy/Monitor Closely. Concomitant use of rosuvastatin and warfarin increases
INR. Closely monitor INR after initiation, titration, or discontinuation of rosuvastatin.

zongertinib
zongertinib increases levels of rosuvastatin by Other (see comment). Modify
Therapy/Monitor Closely. Comment: Zongertinib inhibits BCRP. Use lowest effective

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/crestor-ezallor-sprinkle-rosuvastatin-342467 15/22



6/22/26, 5:12 PM Crestor, Ezallor Sprinkle (rosuvastatin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

dose of rosuvastatin; monitor CK and for signs and symptoms of
myopathy/rhabdomyolysis.

Minor (0)

Adverse Effects

>10%

Myalgia (3-13%)

1-10%

Arthralgia (10%)

Pharyngitis (9%)

Headache (3.1-8.5%)

Myalgia (7.6%)

Nausea (2.4-6.3%)

Asthenia (0.9-6.3%)

Constipation (2.1-4.7%)

Dizziness (4%)

Arthralgia (3.8%)

CPK increased (3%)

Diabetes mellitus (2.8%)

Abdominal pain (2%)

ALT increased (2%)

Flulike illness (2%)

UTI (2%)

<1%

Jaundice

Myopathy

Rhabdomyolysis

Postmarketing Reports

Arthralgia

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/crestor-ezallor-sprinkle-rosuvastatin-342467 16/22



6/22/26, 5:12 PM Crestor, Ezallor Sprinkle (rosuvastatin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Peripheral neuropathy

Depression and sleep disorders (including insomnia and nightmares)

Fatal and nonfatal hepatic failure, hepatitis, jaundice

Thrombocytopenia

Gynecomastia

Interstitial lung disease

Immune-mediated necrotizing myopathy

Cognitive impairment (eg, memory loss, forgetfulness, amnesia, memory impairment,
confusion)

New-onset or exacerbation of myasthenia gravis, including ocular myasthenia

Warnings

Contraindications

Hypersensitivity to drug or excipients

Acute liver failure or decompensated cirrhosis (including unexplained persistent
elevations of LFTs)

Cautions

Nonserious and reversible cognitive adverse effects may occur

Increased blood glucose and glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1c) levels reported with
statin intake; in some instances, these increases may exceed the threshold for the
diagnosis of diabetes mellitus; optimize lifestyle measures, including regular exercise,
maintaining healthy body weight, and making healthy food choices

Use caution in patients who consume large amounts of ethanol or have a history of liver
disease

Interrupt therapy if serious hepatotoxicity with clinical symptoms and/or
hyperbilirubinemia or jaundice occurs during treatment

Increases in AST or ALT reported with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors; monitor liver
enzymes before initiating and if signs or symptoms of liver injury occur

Cases of myopathy [muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness associated with elevated
creatine kinase (CK)] and rhabdomyolysis and rhabdomyolysis with acute renal failure
secondary to myoglobinuria reported with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors; may occur at
any dose level, but are increased at the highest dose (40 mg); caution in patients with
predisposing factors for myopathy (eg, age ≥65 years, inadequately treated
hypothyroidism, renal impairment)

Discontinue treatment if markedly elevated creatine kinase levels occur or myopathy is
diagnosed or suspected; temporarily withhold in any patient with an acute, serious

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/crestor-ezallor-sprinkle-rosuvastatin-342467 17/22



6/22/26, 5:12 PM Crestor, Ezallor Sprinkle (rosuvastatin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

condition suggestive of myopathy or predisposing to the development of renal failure
secondary to rhabdomyolysis (eg, sepsis; hypotension; dehydration; major surgery;
trauma; severe metabolic, endocrine, or electrolyte disorders; uncontrolled seizures)

Pharmacokinetic studies demonstrated an ~2-fold elevation in median exposure (AUC
and peak plasma concentrations) in Asian subjects when compared with a white control
group

Hematuria and proteinuria reported without decrease in renal function; consider dosage
reduction if unexplained hematuria and proteinuria persists

Rule out secondary causes of hyperlipidemia prior to initiating therapy

Risk factors for myopathy

Risk factors for myopathy include age 65 years or greater, uncontrolled
hypothyroidism, renal impairment, concomitant use with certain other drugs
(including other lipid-lowering therapies), and higher dosage; Asian patients may
be at higher risk for myopathy; the myopathy risk is greater in patients taking 40 mg
daily compared with lower dosages

Steps to prevent or reduce risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis

Concomitant use of this medication with cyclosporine or gemfibrozil not
recommended; dosage modifications are recommended for patients taking certain
antiviral medications, darolutamide, and regorafenib; niacin, fibrates, and colchicine
may also increase risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis

Discontinue therapy if markedly elevated CK levels occur or if myopathy is either
diagnosed or suspected; muscle symptoms and CK elevations may resolve if
therapy is discontinued

Temporarily discontinue therapy in patients experiencing an acute or serious
condition at high risk of developing renal failure secondary to rhabdomyolysis (eg,
sepsis; shock; severe hypovolemia; major surgery; trauma; severe metabolic,
endocrine, or electrolyte disorders; or uncontrolled epilepsy)

Inform patients of risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis when starting or increasing
dosage; instruct patients to promptly report any unexplained muscle pain,
tenderness or weakness, particularly if accompanied by malaise or fever

Immune-mediated necrotizing myopathy

Immune-mediated necrotizing myopathy (IMNM), an autoimmune myopathy,
reported with statin use

IMNM is characterized by muscle biopsy showing necrotizing myopathy without
significant inflammation improvement with immunosuppressive agents, proximal
muscle weakness, and elevated serum creatine kinase, which persist despite
discontinuation of statin treatment

Treatment with immunosuppressive agents may be required

Advice all patients starting therapy or whose dose is being increased, about the risk
of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis

Patients should report promptly any unexplained muscle pain, tenderness, or
weakness particularly if accompanied by malaise or fever or if muscle signs and

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/crestor-ezallor-sprinkle-rosuvastatin-342467 18/22



6/22/26, 5:12 PM Crestor, Ezallor Sprinkle (rosuvastatin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

symptoms persist after discontinuing therapy; additional neuromuscular and
serologic testing may be necessary

Therapy should be discontinued immediately if myopathy is diagnosed or suspected

Discontinue therapy if markedly elevated creatine kinase (CK) levels occur or if
myopathy diagnosed or suspected

Therapy should be temporarily withheld in any patient experiencing an acute or
serious condition predisposing to development of renal failure secondary to
rhabdomyolysis, eg, sepsis; hypotension; dehydration; major surgery; trauma;
severe metabolic, endocrine, and electrolyte disorders; or uncontrolled epilepsy

Consider risk of IMNM carefully prior to initiation of a different statin

If therapy is initiated with a different statin, monitor for signs and symptoms of
IMNM

Additional neuromuscular and serologic testing may be necessary

Treatment with immunosuppressive agents may be required

Consider risk of IMNM carefully prior to initiation of a different statin

If therapy is initiated with a different statin, monitor for signs and symptoms of
IMNM

Drug interactions overview

Rosuvastatin is a substrate of OATP1B1 and BRCP; concomitant use with inhibitors
of these transporters may require dose adjustment

Rosuvastatin is a CYP2C9 substrate; concomitant use with CYP2C9 inhibitors may
require dose adjustment

Certain drugs, including fenofibrates, niacin, and colchicine, may increase the risk for
rosuvastatin-induced myopathy or rhabdomyolysis; use caution with concomitant
use and monitor for clinical symptoms of these conditions

Coadministration with warfarin may increase INR; monitor INR after initiation,
discontinuation, or titration of rosuvastatin

Pregnancy & Lactation

Pregnancy

Discontinue therapy when pregnancy is recognized; alternatively, consider ongoing
therapeutic needs of individual patient

Therapy decreases synthesis of cholesterol and possibly other biologically active
substances derived from cholesterol; therefore, therapy may cause fetal harm when
administered to pregnant patients based on the mechanism of action

In addition, treatment of hyperlipidemia is not generally necessary during pregnancy;
atherosclerosis is a chronic process and discontinuation of lipid-lowering drugs during
pregnancy should have little impact on outcome of long-term therapy of primary
hyperlipidemia for most patients

Available data from case series and prospective and retrospective observational cohort
studies over decades of use with statins in pregnant women have not identified a drug-

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/crestor-ezallor-sprinkle-rosuvastatin-342467 19/22



6/22/26, 5:12 PM Crestor, Ezallor Sprinkle (rosuvastatin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

associated risk of major congenital malformations

Published data from prospective and retrospective observational cohort studies with
rosuvastatin use in pregnant women are insufficient to determine if there is a drug-
associated risk of miscarriage

Animal data

In animal reproduction studies, no adverse developmental effects were observed in
pregnant rats or rabbits orally administered rosuvastatin during period of
organogenesis at doses that resulted in systemic exposures equivalent to human
exposures at maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) of 40 mg/day, based on
AUC and body surface area (mg/m2) respectively

Lactation

Limited data from case reports in published literature indicate that rosuvastatin is
present in human milk

There is no available information on effects of drug on breastfed infant or effects on milk
production; statins, decrease cholesterol synthesis and possibly synthesis of other
biologically active substances derived from cholesterol and may cause harm to breastfed
infant.

Because of potential for serious adverse reactions in breastfed infant; based on
mechanism of action, advise patients that breastfeeding is not recommended during
therapy

Pregnancy Categories

A: Generally acceptable. Controlled studies in pregnant women show no evidence of
fetal risk.

B: May be acceptable. Either animal studies show no risk but human studies not available
or animal studies showed minor risks and human studies done and showed no risk.

C: Use with caution if benefits outweigh risks. Animal studies show risk and human
studies not available or neither animal nor human studies done.

D: Use in LIFE-THREATENING emergencies when no safer drug available. Positive
evidence of human fetal risk.

X: Do not use in pregnancy. Risks involved outweigh potential benefits. Safer alternatives
exist.

NA: Information not available.

Pharmacology

Mechanism of Action

HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor; inhibits the rate-limiting step in cholesterol biosynthesis
by competitively inhibiting HMG-CoA reductase

Absorption

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/crestor-ezallor-sprinkle-rosuvastatin-342467 20/22



6/22/26, 5:12 PM Crestor, Ezallor Sprinkle (rosuvastatin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Bioavailability: 20%

Peak plasma time: 3-5 hr

Distribution

Vd: 134 L

Protein bound: 88%

Metabolism

Metabolism: ~10% by hepatic CYP2C9

Metabolites: N-desmethyl, lactone

Elimination

Half-Life, Elimination: 19 hr

Excretion: Feces (90%)

Pharmacogenomics

Hepatic influx and efflux transporters (single-nucleotide polymorphisms [SNPs] within
the solute carrier organic anion transporter 1B1 (SLCO1B1) gene, encoding the organic
anion transporter polypeptide 1B1 (OATP1B1) influx transporter)

SLCO1B1 (OATP1B1) CC genotype significantly increases AUCs of parent drug and
metabolites compared with the CT or TT genotypes

This polymorphism is proposed to reduced transport into the liver, the main site of statin
metabolism and elimination, resulting in elevated plasma concentrations

SLCO1B1 polymorphism is thought to have a lesser effect on the more hydrophilic
statins (eg, rosuvastatin, fluvastatin) compared with those that are more lipophilic (eg,
atorvastatin, pravastatin, simvastatin)

Other genetic polymorphisms of elimination (eg, CYP450, P-glycoprotein) for each
individual drug must also be considered, to explain variability for statin clearance among
patients that exhibit SCLO1B1 polymorphism

SLCO1B1 CC genotype is most common in Caucasians and Asians (15%); decrease dose
by 50% in people of Asian descent

Risk of myopathy is 2.6- to 4.3-fold higher if the C allele is present and 16.9-fold higher
in CC homozygotes than in TT homozygotes

Genetic testing laboratories

Optivia Biotechnology, Inc (https://optiviabio.com)

Administration

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/crestor-ezallor-sprinkle-rosuvastatin-342467 21/22



6/22/26, 5:12 PM Crestor, Ezallor Sprinkle (rosuvastatin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Oral Administration

Take with or without food, swallow whole

Missed Dose

Skip missed dose; resume treatment with next scheduled dose

Storage

Store at 20-25°C (68-77°F); excursions permitted to 15-30°C (59-86°F)

Protect from moisture

Formulary

Adding plans allows you to compare formulary status to other drugs in the same class.

Formulary information is available for health plans only in the United States.

Medscape prescription drug monographs are based on FDA-approved labeling information, unless otherwise noted,
combined with additional data derived from primary medical literature.

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/crestor-ezallor-sprinkle-rosuvastatin-342467 22/22