6/22/26, 5:09 PM Zocor, FloLipid (simvastatin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
This site is intended for healthcare professionals

simvastatin (Rx)
Brand and Other Names: Zocor, FloLipid
Classes: Lipid-Lowering Agents, Statins; HMG-CoA Reductase Inhibitors

Dosing & Uses

ADULT
Dosage Forms & Strengths

tablet (Zocor, generic)

5mg

10mg

20mg

40mg

oral suspension (FloLipid)

4 mg/mL

8 mg/mL

Primary Hyperlipidemia or HeFH

Indicated as an adjunct to diet to reduce LCL-C in adults with primary hyperlipidemia or
heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH)

Usual dosage range: 5-40 mg PO qDay

Initial: 10-20 mg PO qDay in the evening

Patients at high CHD risk: Start 40 mg/day

Homozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia

Indicated as an adjunct to diet to reduce LCL-C in adults with homozygous familial
hypercholesterolemia (HoFH)

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/zocor-flolipid-simvastatin-342463 1/34



6/22/26, 5:09 PM Zocor, FloLipid (simvastatin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Recommended dose: 40 mg PO qDay in the evening

See limitations for 80 mg/day, listed below

Dysbetalipoproteinemia and Hypertriglyceridemia

Indicated as an adjunct to diet for treatment of primary dysbetalipoproteinemia or
hypertriglyceridemia

Recommended dose: 40 mg PO qDay in the evening

See limitations for 80 mg/day, listed below

Prevention of Coronary Events

Indicated to reduce risk of total mortality by reducing risk of coronary heart disease
(CHD) death, non-fatal myocardial infarction and stroke, and the need for coronary and
non-coronary revascularization procedures in adults with established coronary heart
disease, cerebrovascular disease, peripheral vascular disease, and/or diabetes, who are
at high risk of coronary heart disease events

5-40 mg PO qDay in the evening

Moderate reduction of LDL-C desired: 5-10 mg PO qDay in the evening; adjust dose to
achieve goal

Reduction of >40% of LDL-C desired: 40 mg PO qDay in the evening; adjust dose to
achieve goal

Presence of CHD or at high risk for cardiovascular events, including patients with
diabetes, PVD, history of stroke or other cerebrovascular disease: 40 mg PO qDay in the
evening adjunct to diet therapy (initiate simultaneously); adjust dose to achieve goal

Primary and Secondary Prevention of Atheroschlerotic Cardiovascular Disease
(ASCVD)

ACC/AHA Cholesterol Guideline Recommendations (2018) for adults ≥20 years

Primary prevention

LDL-C lowering by ≥50%: High-intensity therapy agent atorvastatin or rosuvastatin
recommended

Type 1 or 2 diabetes (40-75 years of age): Moderate-intensity therapy: 20-40 mg
simvastatin PO qDay

Type 1 or 2 diabetes (40-75 years of age and 10 year estimated risk of ASCVD

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/zocor-flolipid-simvastatin-342463 2/34



6/22/26, 5:09 PM Zocor, FloLipid (simvastatin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

≥7.5%): High-intensity therapy agent atorvastatin or rosuvastatin recommended

40-75 years of age and 10 year estimated risk of ASCVD ≥7.5% : Moderate-
intensity therapy: 20-40 mg simvastatin PO qDay; may consider high-intensity
therapy agent atorvastatin or rosuvastatin

Secondary prevention

Presence of ASCVD, including stroke/TIA or peripheral arterial disease believed to
be of atherosclerotic origin or post-CABG

≤75 years: Treat with high-intensity therapy agent atorvastatin or rosuvastatin

>75 years: Administer 20-40 mg simvastatin PO qDay (moderate-intensity
therapy); not candidate for high-intensity therapy

Dosage Modifications

Renal impariment

Severe renal impairment (CrCl <30 mL/min): 5 mg qDay initially

Hepatic impairment

Acute liver failure or decompensated cirrhosis: Contraindicated

Drug interactions

Coadministration with dronedarone, verapamil, or diltiazem: Do not exceed 10
mg/day

Coadministration with avacopan: Do not exceed 10 mg/day (or 20 mg/day in those
previously tolerating 80 mg/day for at least 1 yr without evidence of muscle
toxicity)

Coadministration with amiodarone, amlodipine, or ranolazine: Do not exceed 20
mg/day

Coadministration with vadadustat: 5 mg qDay initially; do not exceed 20 mg/day

Coadministration with lomitapide: Reduce simvastatin dose by 50%, and do not
exceed 20 mg/day (or 40 mg/day in those previously tolerating 80 mg/day) when
initiating lomitapide

Dosing Considerations

Lipid determinations should be performed after 4 weeks of therapy and periodically
thereafter

Limitation of use (oral suspension): Not studied in conditions where the major
abnormality is elevation of chylomicrons (ie, hyperlipidemia Fredrickson types I and V)

Restricted dosing

80 mg/day should be used only for individuals who have been taking simvastatin 80
mg chronically (eg, ≥12 months) without evidence of myopathy or rhabdomyolysis

Patients tolerating 80 mg who need to be initiated on an interacting drug that is
contraindicated or associated with a maximum dose for simvastatin should be

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/zocor-flolipid-simvastatin-342463 3/34



6/22/26, 5:09 PM Zocor, FloLipid (simvastatin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

switched to an alternative statin with less potential for drug-drug interactions

Patients unable to achieve their LDL-C goal utilizing 40 mg/day should not be
titrated to 80 mg (increased risk for myopathy) but should instead be placed on
alternative LDL-C-lowering treatment that provides greater LDL-C lowering

Overdose management

Adverse drug reactions from overdose may include peripheral neuropathy, diarrhea,
increased K+, myopathy, rhabdomyolysis, acute renal failure, elevated LFTs, and eye
lens opacities

Treatment is supportive

PEDIATRIC
Dosage Forms & Strengths

tablet (Zocor, generic)

5mg

10mg

20mg

40mg

oral suspension (FloLipid)

4 mg/mL

8 mg/mL

Heterozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia

Indicated as an adjunct to diet to reduce LCL-C in adults and pediatric patients aged ≥10
years with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH)

Adolescents aged 10-17 years

Initial: 10 mg PO qDay in the evening; not to exceed 40 mg/day

Recommended dosing range: 10-40 mg/day; adjustments should be made at
intervals of ≥4 weeks

Dosage Modifications

Renal impariment

Severe renal impairment (CrCl <30 mL/min): 5 mg qDay initially

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/zocor-flolipid-simvastatin-342463 4/34



6/22/26, 5:09 PM Zocor, FloLipid (simvastatin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Hepatic impairment

Acute liver failure or decompensated cirrhosis: Contraindicated

Drug interactions

Coadministration with dronedarone, verapamil, or diltiazem: Do not exceed 10
mg/day

Coadministration with avacopan: Do not exceed 10 mg/day (or 20 mg/day in those
previously tolerating 80 mg/day for at least 1 yr without evidence of muscle
toxicity)

Coadministration with amiodarone, amlodipine, or ranolazine: Do not exceed 20
mg/day

Coadministration with vadadustat: 5 mg qDay initially; do not exceed 20 mg/day

Coadministration with lomitapide: Reduce simvastatin dose by 50%, and do not
exceed 20 mg/day (or 40 mg/day in those previously tolerating 80 mg/day) when
initiating lomitapide

Dosing Considerations

Lipid determinations should be performed after 4 weeks of therapy and periodically
thereafter

Interactions

Interaction Checker

Enter a drug name to check for any interactions. Type a drug, OTC, or herbal  and simvastatin
No Interactions Found
Interactions Found
Contraindicated

Serious

Significant - Monitor Closely

Minor

All Interactions Sort By: Severity
Contraindicated (31)

atazanavir
atazanavir will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated. Contraindicated.
Increased risk for rhabdomyolysis with drugs that increase simvastatin systemic
exposure

ceritinib

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/zocor-flolipid-simvastatin-342463 5/34



6/22/26, 5:09 PM Zocor, FloLipid (simvastatin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

ceritinib will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting hepatic/intestinal
enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated.

clarithromycin
clarithromycin will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated. Increased risk for
rhabdomyolysis with drugs that increase simvastatin systemic exposure

clarithromycin will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by Other (see
comment). Contraindicated. OATP1B1 inhibitors may increase risk of myopathy

cobicistat
cobicistat will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated. Potential for
serious reactions such as myopathy including rhabdomyolysis

cyclosporine
cyclosporine will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated. Contraindicated.
Increased risk for rhabdomyolysis with drugs that increase simvastatin systemic
exposure.

cyclosporine will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by Other (see comment).
Contraindicated. OATP1B1 inhibitors may increase risk of myopathy

danazol
danazol increases toxicity of simvastatin by decreasing metabolism.
Contraindicated. Contraindicated. Increased risk for rhabdomyolysis with drugs that
increase simvastatin systemic exposure.

danazol will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting hepatic/intestinal
enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated.

darunavir
darunavir will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated. Increased risk for
rhabdomyolysis with drugs that increase simvastatin systemic exposure

elvitegravir/cobicistat/emtricitabine/tenofovir DF
elvitegravir/cobicistat/emtricitabine/tenofovir DF increases levels of simvastatin by
affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated.
Cobicistat is a CYP3A4 inhibitor; contraindicated with CYP3A4 substrates for which
elevated plasma concentrations are associated with serious and/or life-threatening
events.

erythromycin base
erythromycin base will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated. Increased risk for
rhabdomyolysis with drugs that increase simvastatin systemic exposure

erythromycin ethylsuccinate
erythromycin ethylsuccinate will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by
affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated. Increased

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/zocor-flolipid-simvastatin-342463 6/34



6/22/26, 5:09 PM Zocor, FloLipid (simvastatin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

risk for rhabdomyolysis with drugs that increase simvastatin systemic exposure

erythromycin ethylsuccinate increases toxicity of simvastatin by Other (see
comment). Contraindicated. Comment: OATP1B1 inhibitors may increase risk of
myopathy.

erythromycin lactobionate
erythromycin lactobionate will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by
affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated. Increased
risk for rhabdomyolysis with drugs that increase simvastatin systemic exposure

erythromycin lactobionate increases toxicity of simvastatin by Other (see comment).
Contraindicated. Comment: OATP1B1 inhibitors may increase risk of myopathy.

erythromycin stearate
erythromycin stearate will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated. Increased risk for
rhabdomyolysis with drugs that increase simvastatin systemic exposure

erythromycin stearate increases toxicity of simvastatin by Other (see comment).
Contraindicated. Comment: OATP1B1 inhibitors may increase risk of myopathy.

fosamprenavir
fosamprenavir will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated. Contraindicated.
Increased risk for rhabdomyolysis with drugs that increase simvastatin systemic
exposure

gemfibrozil
gemfibrozil, simvastatin. Either increases effects of the other by pharmacodynamic
synergism. Contraindicated. Contraindicated with other lipid-lowering drugs that
can cause myopathy.

gemfibrozil will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by Other (see comment).
Contraindicated. OATP1B1 inhibitors may increase risk of myopathy

idelalisib
idelalisib will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated. Strong CYP3A4
inhibitors increase systemic statin exposure and risk of myopathy, including
rhabdomyolysis

itraconazole
itraconazole will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated. Contraindicated
during and 2 weeks after itraconazole treatment. Increased risk for rhabdomyolysis
with drugs that increase simvastatin systemic exposure.

ketoconazole
ketoconazole will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated. Contraindicated.
Increased risk for rhabdomyolysis with drugs that increase simvastatin systemic
exposure

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/zocor-flolipid-simvastatin-342463 7/34



6/22/26, 5:09 PM Zocor, FloLipid (simvastatin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

ketoconazole increases toxicity of simvastatin by Other (see comment).
Contraindicated. Comment: OATP1B1 inhibitors may increase risk of myopathy.

letermovir
letermovir increases levels of simvastatin by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme
CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated. Coadministration of letermovir and
simvastatin is not recommended. When letermovir is coadministered with
cyclosporine, use of either simvastatin is contraindicated due to significantly
increased pitavastatin or simvastatin concentrations and risk of myopathy or
rhabdomyolysis. .

levoketoconazole
levoketoconazole will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated. Contraindicated.
Increased risk for rhabdomyolysis with drugs that increase simvastatin systemic
exposure

levoketoconazole increases toxicity of simvastatin by Other (see comment).
Contraindicated. Comment: OATP1B1 inhibitors may increase risk of myopathy.

lonafarnib
lonafarnib will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated.

lopinavir
lopinavir increases levels of simvastatin by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme
CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated. Contraindicated. Increased risk for
rhabdomyolysis with drugs that increase simvastatin systemic exposure.

mifepristone
mifepristone increases levels of simvastatin by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme
CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated. Contraindicated due to increased risk of
rhabdomyolysis.

mifepristone increases toxicity of simvastatin by Other (see comment).
Contraindicated. Comment: OATP1B1 inhibitors may increase risk of myopathy.

nefazodone
nefazodone will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated. Contraindicated.
Increased risk for rhabdomyolysis with drugs that increase simvastatin systemic
exposure.

nelfinavir
nelfinavir will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated.

simvastatin will increase the level or effect of nelfinavir by P-glycoprotein (MDR1)
efflux transporter. Contraindicated.

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/zocor-flolipid-simvastatin-342463 8/34



6/22/26, 5:09 PM Zocor, FloLipid (simvastatin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

nelfinavir increases toxicity of simvastatin by Other (see comment). Contraindicated.
Comment: OATP1B1 inhibitors may increase risk of myopathy.

nirmatrelvir/ritonavir
nirmatrelvir/ritonavir will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated.
Nirmatrelvir/ritonavir is contraindicated with drugs that are highly dependent on
CYP3A for clearance and for which elevated concentrations are associated with
serious and/or life-threatening reactions. Discontinue simvastatin at least 12 hr
before initiating nirmatrelvir/ritonavir, during the 5 days of treatment, and for 5 days
after completing.

ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir & dasabuvir (DSC)
ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir & dasabuvir (DSC) will increase the level or effect
of simvastatin by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism.
Contraindicated. Increased risk of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis

ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir & dasabuvir (DSC) increases toxicity of simvastatin
by Other (see comment). Contraindicated. Comment: OATP1B1 inhibitors may
increase risk of myopathy.

posaconazole
posaconazole will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated. Contraindicated.
Increased risk for rhabdomyolysis with drugs that increase simvastatin systemic
exposure

posaconazole will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by P-glycoprotein
(MDR1) efflux transporter. Contraindicated. Contraindicated. Increased risk for
rhabdomyolysis with drugs that increase simvastatin systemic exposure

red yeast rice
simvastatin, red yeast rice. Either increases toxicity of the other by
pharmacodynamic synergism. Contraindicated. May increase creatine kinase levels
and increase risk of myopathy or rhabdomyolysis; red yeast rice contains monocolin
K (reportedly identical to lovastatin).

relacorilant
relacorilant increases levels of simvastatin by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme
CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated.

ritonavir
ritonavir will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated.

simvastatin will increase the level or effect of ritonavir by P-glycoprotein (MDR1)
efflux transporter. Contraindicated.

ritonavir increases toxicity of simvastatin by Other (see comment). Contraindicated.
Comment: OATP1B1 inhibitors may increase risk of myopathy.

tipranavir

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/zocor-flolipid-simvastatin-342463 9/34



6/22/26, 5:09 PM Zocor, FloLipid (simvastatin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

tipranavir increases levels of simvastatin by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme
CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated. This interaction is the net effect of tipranavir
being coadministered with ritonavir (boosted therapy); increased risk of myopathy
including rhabdomyolysis.

Serious (71)

afatinib
simvastatin increases levels of afatinib by P-glycoprotein (MDR1) efflux transporter.
Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Reduce afatinib daily dose by 10 mg if not tolerated
when coadministered with P-gp inhibitors.

amiodarone
amiodarone increases toxicity of simvastatin by decreasing metabolism. Avoid or
Use Alternate Drug. Do not exceed simvastatin 20 mg daily when given
concurrently. Potential for increased risk of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis.

apalutamide
apalutamide will decrease the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
Coadministration of apalutamide, a strong CYP3A4 inducer, with drugs that are
CYP3A4 substrates can result in lower exposure to these medications. Avoid or
substitute another drug for these medications when possible. Evaluate for loss of
therapeutic effect if medication must be coadministered. Adjust dose according to
prescribing information if needed.

aprepitant
aprepitant will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated.

armodafinil
armodafinil will decrease the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

artemether/lumefantrine
artemether/lumefantrine will decrease the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated.

bosentan
bosentan will decrease the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

bosutinib
simvastatin increases levels of bosutinib by P-glycoprotein (MDR1) efflux
transporter. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

butalbital
butalbital will decrease the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

carbamazepine

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/zocor-flolipid-simvastatin-342463 10/34



6/22/26, 5:09 PM Zocor, FloLipid (simvastatin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

carbamazepine will decrease the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

ceftobiprole medocaril sodium
ceftobiprole medocaril sodium will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by
Other (see comment). Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Ceftobiprole (an OATP1B1/1B3
inhibitor) may increase plasma concentrations of OATP1B1 and OATP1B3
substrates.

cimetidine
cimetidine will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

colchicine
colchicine, simvastatin. Either increases toxicity of the other by pharmacodynamic
synergism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Increased risk of rhabdomyolysis (incl a
fatality).

conivaptan
conivaptan will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated.

darifenacin
darifenacin will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

darolutamide
darolutamide will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by Other (see
comment). Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Darolutamide is a BCRP inhibitor. Avoid
coadministration with BCRP inhibitors. If use is unavoidable, closely monitor for
adverse reactions and consider dose reduction of BCRP substrate drug (refer BCRP
substrate prescribing information).

dasatinib
dasatinib will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated.

dexamethasone
dexamethasone will decrease the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

diltiazem
diltiazem will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
Benefits of combination therapy should be carefully weighed against the potential
risks of combination. Limit simvastatin dose to no more than 10 mg/day and
dilitazem dose to no more than 240 mg/day when used concurrently.

eltrombopag
eltrombopag will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by Other (see
comment). Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. OATP1B1 inhibitors may increase risk of
myopathy

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/zocor-flolipid-simvastatin-342463 11/34



6/22/26, 5:09 PM Zocor, FloLipid (simvastatin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

eluxadoline
simvastatin increases levels of eluxadoline by decreasing metabolism. Avoid or Use
Alternate Drug. Decrease eluxadoline dose to 75 mg PO BID if coadministered with
OATP1B1 inhibitors. .

enasidenib
enasidenib will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by Other (see comment).
Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Avoid coadministration of enasidenib with sensitive
OATP1B1, OATP1B3, or BCRP substrates, for which minimal concentration
changes may lead to serious toxicities. If unavoidable, decrease the substrate(s)
dosage in accordance with their Prescribing Information.

enzalutamide
enzalutamide will decrease the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

etravirine
etravirine will decrease the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

fenofibrate
fenofibrate, simvastatin. Either increases effects of the other by pharmacodynamic
synergism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Fenofibrate may further increase risk for
rhabdomyolysis when added to optimal statin regimen to further decrease TG and
increase HDLs.

fenofibrate micronized
fenofibrate micronized, simvastatin. Either increases effects of the other by
pharmacodynamic synergism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Fenofibrate may further
increase risk for rhabdomyolysis when added to optimal statin regimen to further
decrease TG and increase HDLs.

fenofibric acid
fenofibric acid, simvastatin. Either increases effects of the other by
pharmacodynamic synergism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Fenofibrate may further
increase risk for rhabdomyolysis when added to optimal statin regimen to further
decrease TG and increase HDLs.

fluconazole
fluconazole will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated.

fosaprepitant
fosaprepitant will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated.

fosphenytoin
fosphenytoin will decrease the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated.

glecaprevir/pibrentasvir
glecaprevir/pibrentasvir increases levels of simvastatin by Other (see comment).
Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Comment: Increased statin concentrations resulting

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/zocor-flolipid-simvastatin-342463 12/34



6/22/26, 5:09 PM Zocor, FloLipid (simvastatin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

from OATP1B1 inhibition may increase risk of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis.
Coadministration of glecaprevir/pibrentasvir with simvastatin is not recommended.

grapefruit
grapefruit will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Avoid
consuming large quantities of grapefruit or juice (ie, >1 quart/day)

griseofulvin
griseofulvin will decrease the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated.

hydrocortisone
hydrocortisone will decrease the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

isoniazid
isoniazid will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

ivosidenib
ivosidenib will decrease the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Avoid
coadministration of sensitive CYP3A4 substrates with ivosidenib or replace with
alternative therapies. If coadministration is unavoidable, monitor patients for loss of
therapeutic effect of these drugs.

lapatinib
lapatinib will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated.

leniolisib
leniolisib will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by Other (see comment).
Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Leniolisib, a BCRP, OATP1B1, and OATP1B3 inhibitor,
may increase systemic exposure of these substrates

lumefantrine
lumefantrine will decrease the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated.

marijuana
marijuana will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated.

mesterolone
mesterolone increases toxicity of simvastatin by decreasing metabolism. Avoid or
Use Alternate Drug. Risk of rhabdomyolysis (theoretical interaction based on case
reports of combination of danazol and >20 mg/day lovastatin).

methylprednisolone
methylprednisolone will decrease the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/zocor-flolipid-simvastatin-342463 13/34



6/22/26, 5:09 PM Zocor, FloLipid (simvastatin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

metronidazole
metronidazole will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

miconazole vaginal
miconazole vaginal will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated.

nafcillin
nafcillin will decrease the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated.

nevirapine
nevirapine will decrease the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

niacin
niacin, simvastatin. Either increases toxicity of the other by pharmacodynamic
synergism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Increased risk of rhabdomyolysis (>1 g/day
niacin).

nifedipine
nifedipine will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

nilotinib
nilotinib will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting hepatic/intestinal
enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated.

pentobarbital
pentobarbital will decrease the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

pexidartinib
simvastatin and pexidartinib both increase inhibition of GI absorption. Applies only
to oral form of both agents. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Pexidartinib can cause
hepatotoxicity. Avoid coadministration of pexidartinib with other products know to
cause hepatoxicity.

phenobarbital
phenobarbital will decrease the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

phenytoin
phenytoin will decrease the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated.

pretomanid
simvastatin, pretomanid. Either increases toxicity of the other by Other (see
comment). Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Comment: Pretomanid regimen associated
with hepatotoxicity. Avoid alcohol and hepatotoxic agents, including herbal
supplements and drugs other than bedaquiline and linezolid.

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/zocor-flolipid-simvastatin-342463 14/34



6/22/26, 5:09 PM Zocor, FloLipid (simvastatin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

primidone
primidone will decrease the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

ranolazine
ranolazine increases levels of simvastatin by Other (see comment). Avoid or Use
Alternate Drug. Comment: Benefits of combination therapy should be carefully
weighed against the potential risks of combination. Potential for increased risk of
myopathy/rhabdomyolysis. Limit simvastatin dose to no more than 20 mg/day when
used concurrently. .

rifabutin
rifabutin will decrease the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

rifampin
rifampin will decrease the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

rifapentine
rifapentine will decrease the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Contraindicated.

riociguat
simvastatin will increase the level or effect of riociguat by decreasing metabolism.
Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Coadministration of riociguat (substrate of CYP
isoenzymes 1A1, 2C8, 3A, 2J2) with strong CYP inhibitors may require a decreased
initial dose of 0.5 mg PO TID; monitor for signs of hypotension and reduce dose if
needed

rufinamide
rufinamide will decrease the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

St John's Wort
St John's Wort will decrease the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

topiramate
topiramate will decrease the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

tovorafenib
tovorafenib will decrease the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Avoid
coadministration of tovorafenib (a weak CYP3A4 inducer) with CYP3A substrates
where minimal concentration changes may lead to serious therapeutic failures. If
unavoidable, monitor patients for loss of efficacy unless otherwise recommended in
the CYP3A4 substrate prescribing information.

trofinetide
trofinetide will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by Other (see comment).
Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Trofinetide (an OATP131 and OATP13B inhibitor)

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/zocor-flolipid-simvastatin-342463 15/34



6/22/26, 5:09 PM Zocor, FloLipid (simvastatin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

may increase plasma levels of OATP131 or OATP13B substrates. Avoid
coadministration with sensitive substrates.

tucatinib
tucatinib will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Avoid
concomitant use of tucatinib with CYP3A substrates, where minimal concentration
changes may lead to serious or life-threatening toxicities. If unavoidable, reduce
CYP3A substrate dose according to product labeling.

verapamil
verapamil will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Do
not exceed simvastatin 10 mg daily when given concurrently. Potential for
increased risk of myopathy/rhabdomyolysis.

voriconazole
voriconazole will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
Simvastatin prescribing information recommends a reduced simvastatin dose be
considered when coadministered with voriconazole to reduce the risk of myopathy,
including rhabdomyolysis

zafirlukast
zafirlukast will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

zavegepant intranasal
simvastatin will increase the level or effect of zavegepant intranasal by Other (see
comment). Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. NTCP inhibitors may result in a significant
increase in systemic exposure of zavegepant (a NTCP substrate).

zongertinib
zongertinib increases levels of simvastatin by altering metabolism. Avoid or Use
Alternate Drug. Avoid coadministration of zongertinib with certain BCRP substrates
where minimal concentration changes may lead to serious adverse reactions. If
unavoidable, monitor for increased adverse reactions and follow recommendations
provided in the approved product labeling for the BCRP substrate.

Monitor Closely (101)

amitriptyline
simvastatin will increase the level or effect of amitriptyline by P-glycoprotein
(MDR1) efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

amlodipine
amlodipine increases levels of simvastatin by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme
CYP3A4 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Amlodipine increases
simvastatin levels, possibly increasing the risk of simvastatin-related adverse
effects. If used concomitantly, do not exceed simvastatin dose of 20 mg/day and
monitor for signs of myopathy/rhabdomyoloysis.

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/zocor-flolipid-simvastatin-342463 16/34



6/22/26, 5:09 PM Zocor, FloLipid (simvastatin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

apalutamide
apalutamide will decrease the level or effect of simvastatin by increasing
elimination. Use Caution/Monitor. Apalutamide induces UGT and weakly induces
BCRP and may decrease systemic exposure of drugs that are substrates of both
UGT and BCRP.

atorvastatin
simvastatin will increase the level or effect of atorvastatin by P-glycoprotein
(MDR1) efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

azithromycin
azithromycin will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

bazedoxifene/conjugated estrogens
simvastatin will increase the level or effect of bazedoxifene/conjugated estrogens
by P-glycoprotein (MDR1) efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

bempedoic acid
bempedoic acid increases levels of simvastatin by unknown mechanism. Modify
Therapy/Monitor Closely. Avoid concomitant use with simvastatin dose >20 mg.

budesonide
simvastatin will increase the level or effect of budesonide by P-glycoprotein
(MDR1) efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

carbamazepine
carbamazepine will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by Other (see
comment). Use Caution/Monitor. OATP1B1 inhibitors may increase risk of myopathy

caspofungin
caspofungin will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by Other (see comment).
Use Caution/Monitor. OATP1B1 inhibitors may increase risk of myopathy

cenobamate
cenobamate will decrease the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.
Increase dose of CYP3A4 substrate, as needed, when coadministered with
cenobamate.

ceritinib
simvastatin increases levels of ceritinib by P-glycoprotein (MDR1) efflux
transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

cholestyramine
cholestyramine decreases levels of simvastatin by inhibition of GI absorption.
Applies only to oral form of both agents. Use Caution/Monitor.

cholic acid
simvastatin increases toxicity of cholic acid by decreasing elimination. Modify
Therapy/Monitor Closely. Avoid concomitant use of inhibitors of the bile salt efflux
pump (BSEP). May exacerbate accumulation of conjugated bile salts in the liver and

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/zocor-flolipid-simvastatin-342463 17/34



6/22/26, 5:09 PM Zocor, FloLipid (simvastatin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

result in clinical symptoms. If concomitant use is necessary, monitor serum
transaminases and bilirubin.

clotrimazole
clotrimazole will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by Other (see comment).
Use Caution/Monitor. OATP1B1 inhibitors may increase risk of myopathy

conjugated estrogens
simvastatin will increase the level or effect of conjugated estrogens by P-
glycoprotein (MDR1) efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

conjugated estrogens, vaginal
simvastatin will increase the level or effect of conjugated estrogens, vaginal by P-
glycoprotein (MDR1) efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

cortisone
simvastatin will increase the level or effect of cortisone by P-glycoprotein (MDR1)
efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

crizotinib
crizotinib increases levels of simvastatin by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme
CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Dose reduction may be needed for
coadministered drugs that are predominantly metabolized by CYP3A.

crofelemer
crofelemer increases levels of simvastatin by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme
CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Crofelemer has the potential to inhibit
CYP3A4 at concentrations expected in the gut; unlikely to inhibit systemically
because minimally absorbed.

dabrafenib
dabrafenib will decrease the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.

danicopan
danicopan will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by Other (see comment).
Use Caution/Monitor. Danicopan increases plasma concentrations of BCRP
substrates; consider dose reduction of BCRP substrate according to its prescribing
information.

daptomycin
simvastatin, daptomycin. Either increases toxicity of the other by Other (see
comment). Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Comment: Coadministration of
daptomycin with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors may increase CPK levels and risk
for myopathy; consider temporary suspension of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors
during daptomycin therapy.

deferasirox
deferasirox will decrease the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

deflazacort

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/zocor-flolipid-simvastatin-342463 18/34



6/22/26, 5:09 PM Zocor, FloLipid (simvastatin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

simvastatin will increase the level or effect of deflazacort by P-glycoprotein (MDR1)
efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

dexamethasone
simvastatin will increase the level or effect of dexamethasone by P-glycoprotein
(MDR1) efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

digoxin
simvastatin will increase the level or effect of digoxin by P-glycoprotein (MDR1)
efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

docetaxel
simvastatin will increase the level or effect of docetaxel by P-glycoprotein (MDR1)
efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

dronedarone
dronedarone will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Monitor for
signs and symptoms of myopathy in patients receiving dronedarone concurrently
with simvastatin

duvelisib
duvelisib will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.
Coadministration with duvelisib increases AUC of a sensitive CYP3A4 substrate
which may increase the risk of toxicities of these drugs. Consider reducing the dose
of the sensitive CYP3A4 substrate and monitor for signs of toxicities of the
coadministered sensitive CYP3A substrate.

efavirenz
efavirenz will decrease the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

elafibranor
elafibranor, simvastatin. Either increases toxicity of the other by pharmacodynamic
synergism. Use Caution/Monitor. Both drugs increase risk for CPK elevation and/or
myalgia.

elagolix
elagolix will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by P-glycoprotein (MDR1)
efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

elagolix decreases levels of simvastatin by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme
CYP3A4 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Elagolix is a weak-to-
moderate CYP3A4 inducer. Monitor CYP3A substrates if coadministered. Consider
increasing CYP3A substrate dose if needed.

eliglustat
eliglustat increases levels of simvastatin by P-glycoprotein (MDR1) efflux
transporter. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Monitor therapeutic drug
concentrations, as indicated, or consider reducing the dosage of the P-gp substrate
and titrate to clinical effect.

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/zocor-flolipid-simvastatin-342463 19/34



6/22/26, 5:09 PM Zocor, FloLipid (simvastatin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

eluxadoline
eluxadoline increases levels of simvastatin by decreasing metabolism. Use
Caution/Monitor. Eluxadoline may increase the systemic exposure of coadministered
BCRP substrates. .

enasidenib
enasidenib will decrease the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Enasidenib (a
weak CYP3A4 inducer) may decrease systemic exposure of CYP3A4 substrates.
Monitor and adjust dose of substrate as clinically indicated.

encorafenib
encorafenib, simvastatin. affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism.
Use Caution/Monitor. Encorafenib both inhibits and induces CYP3A4 at clinically
relevant plasma concentrations. Coadministration of encorafenib with sensitive
CYP3A4 substrates may result in increased toxicity or decreased efficacy of these
agents.

encorafenib will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by Other (see comment).
Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Encorafenib (a OATP1B1, OATP1B3, and BCRP
inhibitor) may increase the concentration and toxicities of OATP1B1, OATP1B3, and
BCRP substrates. Closely monitor for signs and symptoms of increased exposure
and consider adjusting the dose of these substrates. Screen reader support
enabled.

eslicarbazepine acetate
eslicarbazepine acetate will decrease the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.
Dose adjustment of some statins may be needed if a clinically significant change in
lipids is noted.

estradiol
simvastatin will increase the level or effect of estradiol by P-glycoprotein (MDR1)
efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

estropipate
simvastatin will increase the level or effect of estropipate by P-glycoprotein (MDR1)
efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

fedratinib
fedratinib will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Adjust dose
of drugs that are CYP3A4 substrates as necessary.

fludrocortisone
simvastatin will increase the level or effect of fludrocortisone by P-glycoprotein
(MDR1) efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

fostemsavir
fostemsavir will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by Other (see comment).
Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Fostemsavir inhibits OATP1B1/3 and BCRP
transporters. If possible, avoid coadministration or modify dose of OATP1B1/3 or

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/zocor-flolipid-simvastatin-342463 20/34



6/22/26, 5:09 PM Zocor, FloLipid (simvastatin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

BCRP substrates coadministered with fostemsavir. Use lowest possible starting
dose for statins and monitor for associated adverse events.

gepotidacin
gepotidacin increases levels of simvastatin by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme
CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Gepotidacin is a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor.
If possible, avoid with sensitive substrates that are are extensively metabolized by
CYP3A4 and have a narrow therapeutic index. If unable to avoid, monitor or modify
substrate dose according to its prescribing information.

givinostat
givinostat will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Givinostat is a
weak CYP3A4 inhibitor. Closely monitor if coadministered with orally administered
CYP3A4 sensitive substrates for which a small change in substrate plasma
concentration may lead to serious toxicities.

glyburide
glyburide increases toxicity of simvastatin by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: OATP1B1 inhibitors may increase risk of myopathy.

hydrocortisone
simvastatin will increase the level or effect of hydrocortisone by P-glycoprotein
(MDR1) efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

irinotecan liposomal
simvastatin will increase the level or effect of irinotecan liposomal by P-
glycoprotein (MDR1) efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

istradefylline
istradefylline will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Istradefylline
40 mg/day increased peak levels and AUC of CYP3A4 substrates in clinical trials.
This effect was not observed with istradefylline 20 mg/day. Consider dose reduction
of sensitive CYP3A4 substrates.

istradefylline will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by P-glycoprotein
(MDR1) efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor. Istradefylline 40 mg/day increased
peak levels and AUC of P-gp substrates in clinical trials. Consider dose reduction of
sensitive P-gp substrates.

itraconazole
simvastatin will increase the level or effect of itraconazole by P-glycoprotein
(MDR1) efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

ivacaftor
ivacaftor increases levels of simvastatin by P-glycoprotein (MDR1) efflux
transporter. Use Caution/Monitor. Ivacaftor and its M1 metabolite has the potential
to inhibit P-gp; may significantly increase systemic exposure to sensitive P-gp
substrates with a narrow therapeutic index.

ivermectin

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/zocor-flolipid-simvastatin-342463 21/34



6/22/26, 5:09 PM Zocor, FloLipid (simvastatin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

simvastatin will increase the level or effect of ivermectin by P-glycoprotein (MDR1)
efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

lanthanum carbonate
lanthanum carbonate decreases levels of simvastatin by cation binding in GI tract.
Use Caution/Monitor. Administer statin at least 2 hr before or 2 hr after lanthanum.
Monitor serum concentrations.

lenacapavir
lenacapavir will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.
Initiate simvastatin with the lowest starting dose and titrate carefully while
monitoring for safety (eg, myopathy)

levamlodipine
levamlodipine will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.
Coadministration of simvastatin with amlodipine increases the systemic exposure of
simvastatin. Limit the dose of simvastatin in patients on amlodipine to 20 mg daily.

lomitapide
lomitapide increases levels of simvastatin by decreasing metabolism. Modify
Therapy/Monitor Closely. Reduce simvastatin dose by 50% if initiating lomitapide
dosing. Do not exceed simvastatin 20 mg daily (or 40 mg daily for patients who
have previously taken an 80 mg daily chronically) while taking lomitapide. .

loperamide
simvastatin will increase the level or effect of loperamide by P-glycoprotein (MDR1)
efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

lorlatinib
lorlatinib will decrease the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

lovastatin
simvastatin will increase the level or effect of lovastatin by P-glycoprotein (MDR1)
efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

mavorixafor
mavorixafor will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Monitor for
adverse effects of sensitive CYP3A4 substrates if coadministered with mavorixafor
(a weak CYP3A4 inhibitor).

mestranol
simvastatin will increase the level or effect of mestranol by P-glycoprotein (MDR1)
efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

methylprednisolone
simvastatin will increase the level or effect of methylprednisolone by P-
glycoprotein (MDR1) efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

metyrapone

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/zocor-flolipid-simvastatin-342463 22/34



6/22/26, 5:09 PM Zocor, FloLipid (simvastatin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

metyrapone increases toxicity of simvastatin by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: OATP1B1 inhibitors may increase risk of myopathy.

mipomersen
mipomersen, simvastatin. Either increases toxicity of the other by Other (see
comment). Use Caution/Monitor. Comment: Both drugs have potential to increase
hepatic enzymes; monitor LFTs.

mitapivat
mitapivat decreases levels of simvastatin by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme
CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Monitor patients for loss of therapeutic
effect of sensitive CYP3A substrates with narrow therapeutic index when
coadministered with mitapivat.

mitapivat decreases levels of simvastatin by increasing metabolism. Use
Caution/Monitor. Mitapivat induces UGT1A1 in vitro and may decrease systemic
concentrations of UGT1A1 substrates.

mitotane
mitotane decreases levels of simvastatin by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme
CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Mitotane is a strong inducer of
cytochrome P-4503A4; monitor when coadministered with CYP3A4 substrates for
possible dosage adjustments.

orforglipron
orforglipron increases levels of simvastatin by Other (see comment). Modify
Therapy/Monitor Closely. Comment: Limit simvastatin dose to 20 mg/day and
monitor for signs and symptoms of toxicity, including liver function abnormalities,
myalgias, and rhabdomyolysis.

paclitaxel
simvastatin will increase the level or effect of paclitaxel by P-glycoprotein (MDR1)
efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

paclitaxel increases toxicity of simvastatin by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: OATP1B1 inhibitors may increase risk of myopathy.

paclitaxel protein bound
simvastatin will increase the level or effect of paclitaxel protein bound by P-
glycoprotein (MDR1) efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

paliperidone
simvastatin will increase the level or effect of paliperidone by P-glycoprotein
(MDR1) efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

pazopanib
simvastatin increases toxicity of pazopanib by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: Increased risk of elevated LFTs with pazopanib when
coadministered with simvastatin.

pazopanib will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by Other (see comment).
Use Caution/Monitor. OATP1B1 inhibitors may increase risk of myopathy

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/zocor-flolipid-simvastatin-342463 23/34



6/22/26, 5:09 PM Zocor, FloLipid (simvastatin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

pioglitazone
pioglitazone increases toxicity of simvastatin by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: OATP1B1 inhibitors may increase risk of myopathy.

ponatinib
ponatinib increases levels of simvastatin by P-glycoprotein (MDR1) efflux
transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

ponatinib increases levels of simvastatin by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor.

posaconazole
simvastatin will increase the level or effect of posaconazole by P-glycoprotein
(MDR1) efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

prednisolone
simvastatin will increase the level or effect of prednisolone by P-glycoprotein
(MDR1) efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

repaglinide
repaglinide increases toxicity of simvastatin by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: OATP1B1 inhibitors may increase risk of myopathy.

resmetirom
resmetirom will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by Other (see comment).
Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Resmetirom inhibits BCRP and OAT1B1/3
transporters. Monitor for statin-related adverse reactions, including but not limited
to elevation of liver tests, myopathy, and rhabdomyolysis. Limit daily dosage of
statin as recommended.

ribociclib
ribociclib will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

rifampin
rifampin will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. OATP1B1 inhibitors may increase risk of myopathy

rilzabrutinib
rilzabrutinib increases levels of simvastatin by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme
CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

risperidone
simvastatin will increase the level or effect of risperidone by P-glycoprotein (MDR1)
efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

rosiglitazone
rosiglitazone increases toxicity of simvastatin by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: OATP1B1 inhibitors may increase risk of myopathy.

sacubitril/valsartan
simvastatin will increase the level or effect of sacubitril/valsartan by Other (see
comment). Use Caution/Monitor. The results from an in vitro study with human liver

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/zocor-flolipid-simvastatin-342463 24/34



6/22/26, 5:09 PM Zocor, FloLipid (simvastatin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

tissue indicate that valsartan is a substrate of the hepatic uptake transporter
OATP1B1; coadministration with OATP1B1 inhibitors may increase valsartan
systemic exposure

sarecycline
sarecycline will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by P-glycoprotein (MDR1)
efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor. Monitor for toxicities of P-gp substrates
that may require dosage reduction when coadministered with P-gp inhibitors.

silodosin
simvastatin will increase the level or effect of silodosin by P-glycoprotein (MDR1)
efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

sirolimus
simvastatin will increase the level or effect of sirolimus by P-glycoprotein (MDR1)
efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

sofosbuvir/velpatasvir
sofosbuvir/velpatasvir will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by Other (see
comment). Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Velpatasvir is an inhibitor of the drug
transporter BCRP. Coadministration may increase systemic exposure of drugs that
are BCRP substrates. Coadministration may significantly increase simvastatin serum
concentration, which is associated with increased risk of myopathy, including
rhabdomyolysis.

stiripentol
stiripentol, simvastatin. affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism.
Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Stiripentol is a CYP3A4 inhibitor and inducer.
Monitor CYP3A4 substrates coadministered with stiripentol for increased or
decreased effects. CYP3A4 substrates may require dosage adjustment.

stiripentol will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by P-glycoprotein (MDR1)
efflux transporter. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Consider reducing the dose of
P-glycoprotein (P-gp) substrates, if adverse reactions are experienced when
administered concomitantly with stiripentol.

suzetrigine
suzetrigine decreases levels of simvastatin by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme
CYP3A4 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Monitor patients for loss of
therapeutic effect of sensitive CYP3A substrates with narrow therapeutic indexes
when coadministered with suzetrigine. Consider modifying dose of sensitive
substrate according to prescribing recommendations.

tacrolimus
simvastatin will increase the level or effect of tacrolimus by P-glycoprotein (MDR1)
efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

tacrolimus increases toxicity of simvastatin by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: OATP1B1 inhibitors may increase risk of myopathy.

tecovirimat
tecovirimat will decrease the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Tecovirimat is

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/zocor-flolipid-simvastatin-342463 25/34



6/22/26, 5:09 PM Zocor, FloLipid (simvastatin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

a weak CYP3A4 inducer. Monitor sensitive CYP3A4 substrates for effectiveness if
coadministered.

ticagrelor
ticagrelor increases levels of simvastatin by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme
CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Avoid simvastatin doses greater than
40 mg.

tolvaptan
simvastatin will increase the level or effect of tolvaptan by P-glycoprotein (MDR1)
efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

vadadustat
vadadustat will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by Other (see comment).
Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Decrease simvastatin starting dose to 5 mg/day.
Do not exceed maximum dose of 20 mg/day.

valoctocogene roxaparvovec
simvastatin and valoctocogene roxaparvovec both increase Other (see comment).
Use Caution/Monitor. Medications that may cause hepatotoxicity when combined
with valoctogene roxaparvovec may potentiate the risk of elevated liver enzymes.
Closely monitor these medications and consider alternative medications in case of
potential drug interactions.

valsartan
simvastatin will increase the level or effect of valsartan by Other (see comment).
Use Caution/Monitor. The results from an in vitro study with human liver tissue
indicate that valsartan is a substrate of the hepatic uptake transporter OATP1B1;
coadministration with OATP1B1 inhibitors may increase valsartan systemic
exposure

viloxazine
viloxazine will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Viloxazine (a
weak CYP3A4 inhibitor) may increase systemic exposure of sensitive CYP3A4
substrates. Monitor and adjust dose of substrate as clinically indicated.

vinblastine
simvastatin will increase the level or effect of vinblastine by P-glycoprotein (MDR1)
efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

vincristine
simvastatin will increase the level or effect of vincristine by P-glycoprotein (MDR1)
efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

vincristine liposomal
simvastatin will increase the level or effect of vincristine liposomal by P-
glycoprotein (MDR1) efflux transporter. Use Caution/Monitor.

warfarin
simvastatin increases effects of warfarin by anticoagulation. Use Caution/Monitor.

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/zocor-flolipid-simvastatin-342463 26/34



6/22/26, 5:09 PM Zocor, FloLipid (simvastatin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Minor (19)

acetazolamide
acetazolamide will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.

aliskiren
simvastatin will increase the level or effect of aliskiren by P-glycoprotein (MDR1)
efflux transporter. Minor/Significance Unknown.

alvimopan
simvastatin will increase the level or effect of alvimopan by P-glycoprotein (MDR1)
efflux transporter. Minor/Significance Unknown.

anastrozole
anastrozole will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.

armodafinil
simvastatin will increase the level or effect of armodafinil by P-glycoprotein (MDR1)
efflux transporter. Minor/Significance Unknown.

coenzyme Q10
simvastatin decreases levels of coenzyme Q10 by unspecified interaction
mechanism. Minor/Significance Unknown.

colestipol
colestipol decreases levels of simvastatin by inhibition of GI absorption. Applies
only to oral form of both agents. Minor/Significance Unknown.

cyclophosphamide
cyclophosphamide will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.

drospirenone
drospirenone will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.

fexofenadine
simvastatin will increase the level or effect of fexofenadine by P-glycoprotein
(MDR1) efflux transporter. Minor/Significance Unknown.

isradipine
isradipine decreases levels of simvastatin by unknown mechanism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

larotrectinib
larotrectinib will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.

loratadine
simvastatin will increase the level or effect of loratadine by P-glycoprotein (MDR1)

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/zocor-flolipid-simvastatin-342463 27/34



6/22/26, 5:09 PM Zocor, FloLipid (simvastatin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

efflux transporter. Minor/Significance Unknown.

orlistat
orlistat increases effects of simvastatin by pharmacodynamic synergism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

sacubitril/valsartan
sacubitril/valsartan increases toxicity of simvastatin by Other (see comment).
Minor/Significance Unknown. Comment: OATP1B1 inhibitors may increase risk of
myopathy.

telmisartan
telmisartan increases toxicity of simvastatin by Other (see comment).
Minor/Significance Unknown. Comment: OATP1B1 inhibitors may increase risk of
myopathy.

trazodone
trazodone increases levels of simvastatin by unspecified interaction mechanism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

valsartan
valsartan increases toxicity of simvastatin by Other (see comment).
Minor/Significance Unknown. Comment: OATP1B1 inhibitors may increase risk of
myopathy.

voclosporin
voclosporin will increase the level or effect of simvastatin by Other (see comment).
Minor/Significance Unknown. Information suggests voclosporin (an OATP1B1
inhibitor) may increase in the concentration of OATP1B1 substrates is possible.
Monitor for adverse reactions of OATP1B1 substrates when coadministered with
voclosporin.

Adverse Effects

1-10%

CPK elevation (>3x ULN) (5%)

Constipation (2%)

Upper respiratory infection (9%)

Flatulence (1-2%)

Transaminases increased (>3x ULN) (1%)

Headache (3-7%)

Myalgia (5%)

Eczema (5%)

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/zocor-flolipid-simvastatin-342463 28/34



6/22/26, 5:09 PM Zocor, FloLipid (simvastatin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Vertigo (5%)

Abdominal pain (7%)

<1%

Myalgia

Myopathy

Arthralgia

Arthritis

Eosinophilia

Chills

Angioedema

Rhabdomyolysis

Abdominal pain

Postmarketing Reports

Erectile dysfunction

Interstitial lung disease

Rare reports of cognitive impairment (eg, memory loss, forgetfulness, amnesia, memory
impairment, confusion) associated with statin use

Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: Pruritus, alopecia, a variety of skin changes (eg,
nodules, discoloration, dryness of skin/mucous membranes, changes to hair/nails),
purpura, lichen planus, urticaria, photosensitivity, flushing, toxic epidermal necrolysis,
erythema multiforme, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome

New-onset or exacerbation of myasthenia gravis, including ocular myasthenia, and
reports of recurrence when the same or a different statin was administered

Warnings

Contraindications

Hypersensitivity to simvastatin

Active liver disease or unexplained transaminase elevation

Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (eg, itraconazole, ketoconazole, erythromycin, clarithromycin,
posaconazole, voriconazole, HIV protease inhibitors, cobicistat, nefazodone), gemfibrozil,
cyclosporine, and danazol

Cautions

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/zocor-flolipid-simvastatin-342463 29/34



6/22/26, 5:09 PM Zocor, FloLipid (simvastatin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Rule out secondary causes of hyperlipidemia prior to initiating therapy

Nonserious and reversible cognitive side effects may occur

Increased blood sugar and glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1c) levels reported with statin
intake

Heavy alcohol use, history of liver disease, renal failure

Monitor LFTs before initiating treatment and thereafter when clinically indicated; reports
of fatal and nonfatal hepatic failure in patients taking statins

Discontinue if markedly elevated CPK levels occur or myopathy is diagnosed or
suspected

Increases in HbA1c and fasting serum glucose levels reported with simvastatin

Severe electrolyte, endocrine, or metabolic disorders

Grapefruit juice increases simvastatin systemic exposure; avoid large quantities of
grapefruit juice (ie, ≥1 quart/day)

Simvastatin and myopathy risk

Myopathy/rhabdomyolysis with acute renal failure and/or myopathy reported;
monitor patient closely, including reports of recurrence when the same or a different
statin was administered

Dose adjustment required when coadministered with niacin, amiodarone, verapamil,
diltiazem, amlodipine, and ranolazine

Predisposing factors for myopathy include advanced age (>65 years), uncontrolled
hypothyroidism, and renal impairment

Withhold or discontinue if myopathy, renal failure, or transaminase levels >3x ULN
develop

Risk of myopathy is greater in patients taking simvastatin 80 daily dosage,
especially in the 1st year of treatment compared with patients taking lower
dosages and compared with patients using other statins with similar or greater
LDL-C-lowering efficacy

Use 80 mg daily dosage only in patients who have been taking simvastatin 80 mg
daily chronically without evidence of muscle toxicity; if patients treated with an 80
mg daily dosage are prescribed an interacting drug that increases risk for myopathy
and rhabdomyolysis, switch to an alternate statin

Inform patients of risk of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis when starting or increasing
therapy and advise patients receiving 80 mg daily dosage of increased risk of
myopathy and rhabdomyolysis; instruct patients to promptly report any
unexplained muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness, particularly if accompanied by
malaise or fever

Immune-mediated necrotizing myopathy

Immune-mediated necrotizing myopathy (IMNM), an autoimmune myopathy,
reported with statin use

IMNM is characterized by muscle biopsy showing necrotizing myopathy without
significant inflammation improvement with immunosuppressive agents, proximal

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/zocor-flolipid-simvastatin-342463 30/34



6/22/26, 5:09 PM Zocor, FloLipid (simvastatin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

muscle weakness, and elevated serum creatine kinase, which persist despite
discontinuation of statin treatment

Treatment with immunosuppressive agents may be required

Advice all patients starting therapy or whose dose is being increased, about the risk
of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis

Patients should report promptly any unexplained muscle pain, tenderness, or
weakness particularly if accompanied by malaise or fever or if muscle signs and
symptoms persist after discontinuing therapy; additional neuromuscular and
serologic testing may be necessary

Therapy should be discontinued immediately if myopathy is diagnosed or suspected

Discontinue therapy if markedly elevated creatine kinase (CK) levels occur or if
myopathy diagnosed or suspected

Therapy should be temporarily withheld in any patient experiencing an acute or
serious condition predisposing to development of renal failure secondary to
rhabdomyolysis, eg, sepsis; hypotension; dehydration; major surgery; trauma;
severe metabolic, endocrine, and electrolyte disorders; or uncontrolled epilepsy

Consider risk of IMNM carefully prior to initiation of a different statin

If therapy is initiated with a different statin, monitor for signs and symptoms of
IMNM

Additional neuromuscular and serologic testing may be necessary

Treatment with immunosuppressive agents may be required

Consider risk of IMNM carefully prior to initiation of a different statin

If therapy is initiated with a different statin, monitor for signs and symptoms of
IMNM

Coadministration with niacin

Myopathy/rhabdomyolysis observed with simvastatin coadministered with lipid-
modifying niacin doses (ie, ≥1 g/day); also observed when coadministered with
daptomycin

Risk of myopathy is greater in Chinese patients, and therefore, coadministration of
simvastatin with lipid-modifying niacin doses is not recommended in Chinese
patients

Unknown if this risk applies to other patients of Asian descent

Drug interaction overview

Simvastatin is a substrate of CYP3A4 and the transport protein OATP1B1;
exposure can be significantly increased with concomitant administration of
inhibitors of CYP3A4 and OATP1B1

Dosage reduction or a reduced maximum daily dose may be required with
concomitant use of some medications (See Dosage Modifications)

Pregnancy & Lactation

Pregnancy

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/zocor-flolipid-simvastatin-342463 31/34



6/22/26, 5:09 PM Zocor, FloLipid (simvastatin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Discontinue therapy when pregnancy recognized; alternatively, consider ongoing
therapeutic needs of individual patient

Therapy decreases synthesis of cholesterol and possibly other biologically active
substances derived from cholesterol; therefore, this drug may cause fetal harm when
administered to pregnant patients based on mechanism of action; in addition, treatment
of hyperlipidemia is not generally necessary during pregnancy

Atherosclerosis is a chronic process and discontinuation of lipid-lowering drugs during
pregnancy should have little impact on outcome of long-term therapy of primary
hyperlipidemia for most patients

Available data from case series and prospective and retrospective observational cohort
studies over decades of use with statins in pregnant women have not identified a drug-
associated risk of major congenital malformations

Published data from prospective and retrospective observational cohort studies, use in
pregnant women are insufficient to determine if there is a drug-associated risk of
miscarriage

Contraception

Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during
treatment

Animal data

In animal reproduction studies, no adverse developmental effects were observed in
pregnant rats or rabbits orally administered simvastatin during period of
organogenesis at doses that resulted in 2.5 and 2 times, respectively, the human
exposure at maximum recommended human dosage of 80 mg/day, based on body
surface area (mg/m2)

Lactation

There is no information about presence of this drug in human or animal milk, effects on
breastfed infant or on milk production; however, it has been shown that another drug in
this class passes into human milk; statins, including this drug, decrease cholesterol
synthesis and possibly synthesis of other biologically active substances derived from
cholesterol and may cause harm to breastfed infant

Because of potential for serious adverse reactions in breastfed infant, based on the
mechanism of action, advise patients that breastfeeding is not recommended during
treatment with this drug

For patients with lower risk, temporarily stop statin therapy until breastfeeding ends

Patients who are at high risk of heart attack or stroke who require statins after delivery
should not breastfeed and should use alternatives such as infant formula

Pregnancy Categories

A: Generally acceptable. Controlled studies in pregnant women show no evidence of
fetal risk.

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/zocor-flolipid-simvastatin-342463 32/34



6/22/26, 5:09 PM Zocor, FloLipid (simvastatin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
B: May be acceptable. Either animal studies show no risk but human studies not available
or animal studies showed minor risks and human studies done and showed no risk.

C: Use with caution if benefits outweigh risks. Animal studies show risk and human
studies not available or neither animal nor human studies done.

D: Use in LIFE-THREATENING emergencies when no safer drug available. Positive
evidence of human fetal risk.

X: Do not use in pregnancy. Risks involved outweigh potential benefits. Safer alternatives
exist.

NA: Information not available.

Pharmacology

Mechanism of Action

HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor; inhibits the rate-limiting step in cholesterol biosynthesis
by competitively inhibiting HMG-CoA reductase

Absorption

Bioavailability: <5%

Onset of action: >3 days

Peak plasma time: 1.3-2.4 hr

Maximum effect: 4-6 weeks

Distribution

Protein bound: 95%

Metabolism

First pass in liver

Converted to maximally active simvastatin acid by nonenzymatic pathways and
nonspecific enzymes

Metabolites: Beta-hydroxyacid and 6'-hydroxy, 6'-hydroxymethyl, and 6'-exomethylene
derivatives (all active)

Simvastatin acid also converted to other active metabolites by CYP3A4

Elimination

Excretion: Feces (60%); urine (13%)

Pharmacogenomics

SLCO1B1 (OATP1B1) CC genotype significantly increases AUCs of parent drug and
metabolites compared with the CT or TT genotypes

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/zocor-flolipid-simvastatin-342463 33/34



6/22/26, 5:09 PM Zocor, FloLipid (simvastatin) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

This polymorphism is proposed to reduce transport into the liver, the main site of statin
metabolism and elimination, resulting in elevated plasma concentrations

SLCO1B1 polymorphism is thought to have a lesser effect on the more hydrophilic
statins (eg, rosuvastatin, fluvastatin) compared with those that are more lipophilic (eg,
atorvastatin, simvastatin)

Other genetic polymorphisms of elimination (eg, CYP450, P-glycoprotein) for each
individual drug must also be considered, to explain variability for statin clearance among
patients that exhibit SCLO1B1 polymorphism

SLCO1B1 CC genotype is most common in Caucasians and Asians (15%)

Risk of myopathy is 2.6- to 4.3-fold higher if the C allele is present and 16.9-fold higher
in CC homozygotes than in TT homozygotes

Genetic testing laboratories

Optivia Biotechnology, Inc (https://optiviabio.com)

Formulary

Adding plans allows you to compare formulary status to other drugs in the same class.

Formulary information is available for health plans only in the United States.

Medscape prescription drug monographs are based on FDA-approved labeling information, unless otherwise noted,
combined with additional data derived from primary medical literature.

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/zocor-flolipid-simvastatin-342463 34/34