6/22/26, 4:21 PM Prozac (fluoxetine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more
This site is intended for healthcare professionals

fluoxetine (Rx)
Brand and Other Names: Prozac, Prozac Weekly (DSC), Sarafem (DSC)
Classes: Antidepressants, SSRIs

Dosing & Uses

ADULT
Dosage Forms & Strengths

capsule (Prozac, generic)

10mg

20mg

40mg

capsule, delayed-release (generic)

90mg

tablet (generic)

10mg

20mg

60mg

oral solution

20mg/5mL (generic)

Major Depressive Disorder

Indicated for acute and maintenance treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD)

Initial: 20 mg PO qDay

May consider gradually increasing dose after several weeks by 20 mg/day; not to exceed

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prozac-fluoxetine-342955 1/61



6/22/26, 4:21 PM Prozac (fluoxetine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

80 mg qDay

Delayed-release capsule

90 mg PO qWeek

Resistant Depression

Indicated in combination with olanzapine for treatment of resistant depression (MMD in
patients who do not respond to 2 separate trials of different antidepressants of adequate
dose and duration in the current episode)

Initial: 20 mg fluoxetine plus 5 mg olanzapine PO qHS

Make dosage adjustments, if indicated, according to efficacy and tolerability within dose
ranges of fluoxetine 20-50 mg and olanzapine 5-20 mg

Depression Associated with Bipolar I Disorder

Indicated in combination with olanzapine for treatment of acute depressive episodes
associated with bipolar I disorder

Initial: 20 mg fluoxetine plus 5 mg olanzapine PO qHS

Make dosage adjustments, if indicated, according to efficacy and tolerability within dose
ranges of fluoxetine 20-50 mg and olanzapine 5-12.5 mg

Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder

Indicated for acute and maintenance treatment of obsessions and compulsions in
patients with obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD)

Initial: 20 mg PO qDay

May consider gradually increasing dose after several weeks by 20 mg/day (20-60
mg/day recommended range); not to exceed 80 mg qDay

Delayed-release capsule

90 mg PO qWeek

Bulimia Nervosa

Indicted for acute and maintenance treatment of binge-eating and vomiting behaviors in
patients with moderate to severe bulimia nervosa

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prozac-fluoxetine-342955 2/61



6/22/26, 4:21 PM Prozac (fluoxetine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Initial or maintenance: May titrate dose to 60 mg PO qDay over several days

Panic Disorder

Indicated for acute treatment of panic disorder, with or without agoraphobia

Initial: 10 mg PO qDay for first week, THEN 20 mg PO qDay

May consider gradually increasing dose after several weeks; not to exceed 60 mg qDay;
doses > 60 mg/day not evaluated

Premenstrual Dysphoric Disorder

Indicated for treatment of premenstrual dysphoric disorder

Continuous administration: 20 mg PO qDay initially; may gradually increase dose; not to
exceed 80 mg/day, OR

Intermittent administration: 20 mg PO qDay starting 14 days before menstruation and
through first full day of menses (repeat each cycle)

Off-label Uses

Fibromyalgia

Generalized anxiety disorder

Posttraumatic stress disorder

Social anxiety disorder

Dosage Modifications

Renal impairment

Mild, moderate, or severe: No dosage adjustment required

Hemodialysis: Not significantly dialyzed

Hepatic impairment

Cirrhosis and chronic liver disease: Use lower doses (up to 50% reduction) or less
frequent dosing

Dosing Considerations

Dose conversion

Once weekly and immediate-release formulations
Delayed release (once-weekly formulation): Immediate-release fluoxetine 20
mg/day = delayed-release fluoxetine 90 mg/week

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prozac-fluoxetine-342955 3/61



6/22/26, 4:21 PM Prozac (fluoxetine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

When converting from immediate-release fluoxetine daily dosing, initiate
delayed-release fluoxetine (90 mg once weekly) 7 days after the 20 mg/day
dose of immediate-release fluoxetine

Patients must be stabilized on immediate-release fluoxetine 20 mg once daily
before switching

In combination with olanzapine
Symbyax 3 mg olanzapine/25 mg fluoxetine = olanzapine 2.5 mg plus
fluoxetine 20 mg

Symbyax 6 mg olanzapine/25 mg fluoxetine = olanzapine 5 mg plus fluoxetine
20 mg

Symbyax 12 mg olanzapine/25 mg fluoxetine = olanzapine 12.5 mg plus
fluoxetine 20 mg

Symbyax 6 mg olanzapine/50 mg fluoxetine = olanzapine 5 mg plus fluoxetine
10 mg

Symbyax 12 mg olanzapine/50 mg fluoxetine = olanzapine 12.5 mg plus
fluoxetine 50 mg

PEDIATRIC
Dosage Forms & Strengths

capsule (Prozac, generic)

10mg

20mg

40mg

tablet (generic)

10mg

20mg

60mg

oral solution

20mg/5mL (generic)

Major Depressive Disorder

Indicated for acute and maintenance treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD) in
children aged ≥8 years

<8 years: Safety and efficacy not established

≥8 years

10-20 mg PO qDay, initially

Start at 10 mg/day in lower weight children

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prozac-fluoxetine-342955 4/61



6/22/26, 4:21 PM Prozac (fluoxetine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

May gradually increase dose after 1 week; not to exceed 20 mg qDay

Depression Associated with Bipolar I Disorder

Indicated in combination with olanzapine for acute depressive episodes in bipolar I
disorder in children and adolescents aged 10-17 years

<10 years: Safety and efficacy not established

10-17 years

Initial: 20 mg fluoxetine plus 2.5 mg olanzapine PO qHS

Make dosage adjustments, if indicated, according to efficacy and tolerability within
dose ranges of fluoxetine 20-50 mg and olanzapine 5-12.5 mg

Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder

Indicated for acute and maintenance treatment of obsessions and compulsions in
patients with obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD) aged ≥7 years

<7 years: Safety and efficacy not established

≥7 years

10 mg PO qDay, initially; may gradually increase dose after 2 weeks to 20 mg
qDay; further increases may be considered after several weeks

Adolescents and higher-weight children: Typical dosage range 20-60 mg qDay

Lower-weight children: Typical dosage range 20-30 mg qDay

Body Dysmorphic Disorder (Orphan)

Treatment of body dysmorphic disorder in children and adolescents

Orphan indication sponsor

Hollander, Eric MD; The Mount Sinai School of Medicine, One Gustave L. Levy
Place; New York, NY 10029-6574

Autism (Orphan)

Orphan indication sponsor

Neuropharm, Ltd; Felcham Park House, Lower Road, Leatherhead; UK

GERIATRIC
Major Depressive Disorder

Initial: 10 mg PO qDay

May gradually increase dose by 10-20 mg after several weeks as tolerated

Do not take at night unless sedation occurs

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prozac-fluoxetine-342955 5/61



6/22/26, 4:21 PM Prozac (fluoxetine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Dosing Considerations

Preferred drug of choice in elderly over tricyclic antidepressants because of fewer side
effects

Interactions

Interaction Checker

Enter a drug name to check for any interactions. Type a drug, OTC, or herbal  and fluoxetine
No Interactions Found
Interactions Found
Contraindicated

Serious

Significant - Monitor Closely

Minor

All Interactions Sort By: Severity
Contraindicated (16)

artemether/lumefantrine
artemether/lumefantrine will increase the level or effect of fluoxetine by affecting
hepatic enzyme CYP2D6 metabolism. Contraindicated.

eliglustat
fluoxetine increases levels of eliglustat by affecting hepatic enzyme CYP2D6
metabolism. Contraindicated. If coadministered with strong or moderate CYP2D6
inhibitors, reduce eliglustat dose from 84 mg BID to 84 mg once daily in extensive
and intermediate metabolizers; eliglustat is contraindiated if strong or moderate
CYP2D6 inhibitors are given concomitantly with strong or moderate CYP3A
inhibitors.

goserelin
goserelin increases toxicity of fluoxetine by QTc interval. Contraindicated. Increases
risk of torsades de pointes.

isocarboxazid
isocarboxazid and fluoxetine both increase serotonin levels. Contraindicated.

leuprolide
leuprolide increases toxicity of fluoxetine by QTc interval. Contraindicated. Increases
risk of torsades de pointes.

linezolid
linezolid and fluoxetine both increase serotonin levels. Contraindicated. Linezolid
may increase serotonin as a result of MAO-A inhibition. If linezolid must be

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prozac-fluoxetine-342955 6/61



6/22/26, 4:21 PM Prozac (fluoxetine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

administered, discontinue serotonergic drug immediately and monitor for CNS
toxicity. Serotonergic therapy may be resumed 24 hours after last linezolid dose or
after 5 weeks of monitoring, whichever comes first.

lumefantrine
lumefantrine will increase the level or effect of fluoxetine by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2D6 metabolism. Contraindicated.

mavacamten
fluoxetine increases levels of mavacamten by affecting hepatic enzyme CYP2C19
metabolism. Contraindicated. Strong CYP2C19 inhibitors may increase mavacamten
systemic exposure, resulting in heart failure due to systolic dysfunction. .

mavorixafor
mavorixafor will increase the level or effect of fluoxetine by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2D6 metabolism. Contraindicated. Mavorixafor (a strong CYP2D6
inhibitor) is contraindicated with drugs that are highly dependent on CYP2D6 for
clearance.

methylene blue
methylene blue and fluoxetine both increase serotonin levels. Contraindicated.
Methylene blue may increase serotonin as a result of MAO-A inhibition. If
methylene blue must be administered, discontinue fluoxetine immediately and
monitor for CNS toxicity. Fluoxetine may be resumed 24 hours after last methylene
blue dose or after 5 weeks of monitoring, whichever comes first.

phenelzine
phenelzine and fluoxetine both increase serotonin levels. Contraindicated.

pimozide
fluoxetine and pimozide both increase QTc interval. Contraindicated.

fluoxetine increases levels of pimozide by decreasing metabolism. Contraindicated.
Risk of QT interval prolongation.

procarbazine
procarbazine and fluoxetine both increase serotonin levels. Contraindicated.
Combinations is contraindicated within 5 weeks of MAOI use.

selegiline
selegiline and fluoxetine both increase serotonin levels. Contraindicated. At least 5
weeks should elapse between discontinuation of fluoxetine and initiation of
selegiline.

thioridazine
thioridazine will increase the level or effect of fluoxetine by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2D6 metabolism. Contraindicated.

thioridazine and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Contraindicated.

fluoxetine increases levels of thioridazine by decreasing metabolism.
Contraindicated. Risk of long QT syndrome.

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prozac-fluoxetine-342955 7/61



6/22/26, 4:21 PM Prozac (fluoxetine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

tranylcypromine
tranylcypromine and fluoxetine both increase serotonin levels. Contraindicated.

Serious (132)

adagrasib
adagrasib, fluoxetine. Either increases effects of the other by QTc interval. Avoid or
Use Alternate Drug. Each drug prolongs the QTc interval, which may increased the
risk of Torsade de pointes, other serious arryhthmias, and sudden death. If
coadministration unavoidable, more frequent monitoring is recommended for such
patients.

alfentanil
alfentanil, fluoxetine. Either increases toxicity of the other by serotonin levels. Avoid
or Use Alternate Drug.

amiodarone
amiodarone and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

amisulpride
amisulpride and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
ECG monitoring is recommended if coadministered.

amitriptyline
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of amitriptyline by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

fluoxetine and amitriptyline both increase serotonin levels. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug.

amoxapine
fluoxetine and amoxapine both increase serotonin levels. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug.

anagrelide
anagrelide and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

aripiprazole
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of aripiprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2D6 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

aripiprazole and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

arsenic trioxide
arsenic trioxide and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug.

artemether
artemether and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

atomoxetine

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prozac-fluoxetine-342955 8/61



6/22/26, 4:21 PM Prozac (fluoxetine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

atomoxetine and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug.

buprenorphine
buprenorphine and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug.

buprenorphine buccal
buprenorphine buccal and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use
Alternate Drug.

buprenorphine subdermal implant
buprenorphine subdermal implant and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Avoid
or Use Alternate Drug.

buprenorphine transdermal
buprenorphine transdermal and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use
Alternate Drug.

buprenorphine, long-acting injection
buprenorphine, long-acting injection and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval.
Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

bupropion
fluoxetine increases toxicity of bupropion by unspecified interaction mechanism.
Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. May lower seizure threshold; keep bupropion dose as
low as possible.

buspirone
fluoxetine and buspirone both increase serotonin levels. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug.

carvedilol
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of carvedilol by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2D6 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

ceritinib
ceritinib and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

chlorpromazine
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of chlorpromazine by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2D6 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

cimetidine
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of cimetidine by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2C19 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

citalopram
citalopram and fluoxetine both increase serotonin levels. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug. Combination may increase risk of serotonin syndrome or neuroleptic
malignant syndrome-like reactions. ECG monitoring is recommended, along with
drugs that may prolong the QT interval.

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prozac-fluoxetine-342955 9/61



6/22/26, 4:21 PM Prozac (fluoxetine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

clomipramine
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of clomipramine by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2D6 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

fluoxetine and clomipramine both increase serotonin levels. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug.

clopidogrel
fluoxetine decreases effects of clopidogrel by affecting hepatic enzyme CYP2C19
metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Clopidogrel efficacy may be reduced by
drugs that inhibit CYP2C19. Inhibition of platelet aggregation by clopidogrel is
entirely due to an active metabolite. Clopidogrel is metabolized to this active
metabolite in part by CYP2C19. .

cyclobenzaprine
fluoxetine and cyclobenzaprine both increase serotonin levels. Avoid or Use
Alternate Drug.

dacomitinib
dacomitinib will increase the level or effect of fluoxetine by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2D6 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Avoid use with
CYP2D6 substrates where minimal increases in concentration of the CYP2D6
substrate may lead to serious or life-threatening toxicities.

desflurane
desflurane and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

desipramine
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of desipramine by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2D6 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

fluoxetine and desipramine both increase serotonin levels. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug.

desvenlafaxine
fluoxetine and desvenlafaxine both increase serotonin levels. Avoid or Use
Alternate Drug.

dextromethorphan
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of dextromethorphan by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2D6 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

fluoxetine and dextromethorphan both increase serotonin levels. Avoid or Use
Alternate Drug.

disopyramide
disopyramide and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug.

dolasetron
dolasetron, fluoxetine. Either increases toxicity of the other by serotonin levels.
Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prozac-fluoxetine-342955 10/61



6/22/26, 4:21 PM Prozac (fluoxetine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

dosulepin
fluoxetine and dosulepin both increase serotonin levels. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug.

doxepin
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of doxepin by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2D6 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

fluoxetine and doxepin both increase serotonin levels. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

duloxetine
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of duloxetine by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2D6 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

duloxetine and fluoxetine both increase serotonin levels. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug.

eliglustat
eliglustat and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

encorafenib
encorafenib and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
Encorafenib is associated with dose-dependent QTc interval prolongation. Avoid
with drugs known to prolong QT interval.

entrectinib
fluoxetine and entrectinib both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

escitalopram
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of escitalopram by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

escitalopram and fluoxetine both increase serotonin levels. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug.

fedratinib
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of fedratinib by Other (see comment).
Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Avoid coadministration of fedratinib (a CYP3A4 and
CYP2C19 substrate) with dual CYP3A4 and CYP2C19 inhibitor. Effect of
coadministration of a dual CYP3A4 and CYP2C19 inhibitor with fedratinib has not
been studied.

fentanyl
fentanyl, fluoxetine. Either increases toxicity of the other by serotonin levels. Avoid
or Use Alternate Drug.

fentanyl intranasal
fentanyl intranasal, fluoxetine. Either increases toxicity of the other by serotonin
levels. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

fentanyl transdermal
fentanyl transdermal, fluoxetine. Either increases toxicity of the other by serotonin

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prozac-fluoxetine-342955 11/61



6/22/26, 4:21 PM Prozac (fluoxetine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

levels. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

fentanyl transmucosal
fentanyl transmucosal, fluoxetine. Either increases toxicity of the other by serotonin
levels. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

fexinidazole
fexinidazole and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
Avoid coadministration of fexinidazole with drugs known to block potassium
channels or prolong QT interval.

flecainide
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of flecainide by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2D6 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

fluphenazine
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of fluphenazine by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2D6 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

fluphenazine and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug.

fluvoxamine
fluvoxamine and fluoxetine both increase serotonin levels. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug.

gilteritinib
gilteritinib will decrease the level or effect of fluoxetine by Other (see comment).
Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Coadministration of gilteritinib with drugs that inhibit
5HT2B or sigma nonspecific receptors. Avoid use of these drugs with gilteritinib
unless coadministration is necessary.

gilteritinib and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

givosiran
givosiran will increase the level or effect of fluoxetine by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2D6 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Avoid coadministration of
sensitive CYP2D6 substrates with givosiran. If unavoidable, decrease the CYP2D6
substrate dosage in accordance with approved product labeling.

glasdegib
fluoxetine and glasdegib both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. If
coadministration unavoidable, monitor for increased risk of QTc interval
prolongation.

granisetron
granisetron, fluoxetine. Either increases toxicity of the other by serotonin levels.
Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

haloperidol
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of haloperidol by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2D6 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prozac-fluoxetine-342955 12/61



6/22/26, 4:21 PM Prozac (fluoxetine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

haloperidol will increase the level or effect of fluoxetine by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2D6 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

histrelin
histrelin increases toxicity of fluoxetine by QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug. Increases risk of torsades de pointes.

hydromorphone
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of hydromorphone by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2D6 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

hydromorphone, fluoxetine. Either increases toxicity of the other by serotonin levels.
Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

hydroxychloroquine sulfate
hydroxychloroquine sulfate and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use
Alternate Drug.

hydroxyzine
hydroxyzine increases toxicity of fluoxetine by QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug. Increases risk of torsades de pointes.

ibutilide
fluoxetine and ibutilide both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

imipramine
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of imipramine by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2C19 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of imipramine by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2D6 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

fluoxetine and imipramine both increase serotonin levels. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug.

indapamide
fluoxetine and indapamide both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

isoflurane
isoflurane and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

ivosidenib
ivosidenib and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
Avoid coadministration of QTc prolonging drugs with ivosidenib or replace with
alternate therapies. If coadministration of a QTc prolonging drug is unavoidable,
monitor for increased risk of QTc interval prolongation.

ivosidenib will decrease the level or effect of fluoxetine by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2C9/10 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Avoid coadministration of
sensitive CYP2C9 substrates with ivosidenib or replace with alternate therapies. If
coadministration is unavoidable, monitor patients for loss of therapeutic effect of
these drugs.

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prozac-fluoxetine-342955 13/61



6/22/26, 4:21 PM Prozac (fluoxetine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

lefamulin
lefamulin and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

levomilnacipran
fluoxetine and levomilnacipran both increase serotonin levels. Avoid or Use
Alternate Drug.

lofepramine
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of lofepramine by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2D6 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

fluoxetine and lofepramine both increase serotonin levels. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug.

lonafarnib
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of lonafarnib by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. If
coadministration of lonafarnib (a sensitive CYP3A substrate) with weak CYP3A
inhibitors is unavoidable, reduce to, or continue lonafarnib at starting dose. Closely
monitor for arrhythmias and events (eg, syncope, heart palpitations) since
lonafarnib effect on QT interval is unknown.

lorcaserin
fluoxetine and lorcaserin both increase serotonin levels. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug.

macimorelin
macimorelin and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
Macimorelin causes an increase of ~11 msec in the corrected QT interval. Avoid
coadministration with drugs that prolong QT interval, which could increase risk for
developing torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia. Allow sufficient
washout time of drugs that are known to prolong the QT interval before
administering macimorelin.

mefloquine
mefloquine increases toxicity of fluoxetine by QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug. Mefloquine may enhance the QTc prolonging effect of high risk QTc
prolonging agents.

meperidine
fluoxetine and meperidine both increase serotonin levels. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug.

meperidine, fluoxetine. Either increases toxicity of the other by serotonin levels.
Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

methamphetamine
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of methamphetamine by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2D6 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

methylenedioxymethamphetamine
fluoxetine increases toxicity of methylenedioxymethamphetamine by decreasing

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prozac-fluoxetine-342955 14/61



6/22/26, 4:21 PM Prozac (fluoxetine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

elimination. Contraindicated.

metoclopramide
metoclopramide and fluoxetine both increase serotonin levels. Avoid or Use
Alternate Drug. Additive effects; increased risk for serotonin syndrome, neuroleptic
malignant syndrome, dystonia, or other extrapyramidal reactions

metoclopramide intranasal
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of metoclopramide intranasal by affecting
hepatic enzyme CYP2D6 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Concurrent use
of metoclopramide intranasal and strong CYP2D6 inhibitors is not recommended
since the metoclopramide intranasal dose cannot be adjusted.

fluoxetine, metoclopramide intranasal. Either increases effects of the other by Other
(see comment). Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Comment: Avoid use of
metoclopramide intranasal or interacting drug, depending on importance of drug to
patient.

metoprolol
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of metoprolol by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2D6 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

mexiletine
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of mexiletine by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2D6 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

milnacipran
fluoxetine and milnacipran both increase serotonin levels. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug.

mirtazapine
mirtazapine and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

morphine
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of morphine by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2D6 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

morphine, fluoxetine. Either increases toxicity of the other by serotonin levels. Avoid
or Use Alternate Drug.

nebivolol
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of nebivolol by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2D6 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

nefazodone
fluoxetine and nefazodone both increase serotonin levels. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug.

netupitant/palonosetron
netupitant/palonosetron, fluoxetine. Either increases toxicity of the other by
serotonin levels. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

nortriptyline

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prozac-fluoxetine-342955 15/61



6/22/26, 4:21 PM Prozac (fluoxetine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of nortriptyline by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2D6 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

fluoxetine and nortriptyline both increase serotonin levels. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug.

olopatadine intranasal
fluoxetine and olopatadine intranasal both increase sedation. Avoid or Use
Alternate Drug. Coadministration increases risk of CNS depression, which can lead
to additive impairment of psychomotor performance and cause daytime impairment.

ondansetron
fluoxetine and ondansetron both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug. Avoid with congenital long QT syndrome; ECG monitoring recommended with
concomitant medications that prolong QT interval, electrolyte abnormalities, CHF,
or bradyarrhythmias.

ondansetron, fluoxetine. Either increases toxicity of the other by serotonin levels.
Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

oxaliplatin
oxaliplatin and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

oxycodone
oxycodone will increase the level or effect of fluoxetine by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2D6 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Opioids may enhance the
serotonergic effects of SSRIs and increase risk for serotonergic syndrome

oxymorphone
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of oxymorphone by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2D6 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

ozanimod
ozanimod increases toxicity of fluoxetine by sympathetic (adrenergic) effects,
including increased blood pressure and heart rate. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
Because the active metabolite of ozanimod inhibits MAO-B in vitro, there is a
potential for serious adverse reactions, including hypertensive crisis. Therefore,
coadministration of ozanimod with drugs that can increase norepinephrine or
serotonin is not recommended. Monitor for hypertension with concomitant use.

palonosetron
palonosetron, fluoxetine. Either increases toxicity of the other by serotonin levels.
Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

panobinostat
fluoxetine and panobinostat both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug. Panobinostat is known to significantly prolong QT interval. Panobinostat
prescribing information states use with drugs known to prolong QTc is not
recommended.

paroxetine
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of paroxetine by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2D6 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prozac-fluoxetine-342955 16/61



6/22/26, 4:21 PM Prozac (fluoxetine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

fluoxetine and paroxetine both increase serotonin levels. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug.

pentamidine
fluoxetine and pentamidine both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug.

perphenazine
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of perphenazine by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2D6 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

perphenazine will increase the level or effect of fluoxetine by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2D6 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

perphenazine and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug.

phentermine
fluoxetine, phentermine. Either increases toxicity of the other by Mechanism:
unknown. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Risk of serotonin syndrome.

pirfenidone
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of pirfenidone by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP1A2 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Avoid; coadministration
of pirfenidone and moderate CYP1A2 inhibitors result in moderately increased
exposure to pirfenidone; if unable to avoid, decrease dose of moderate CYP1A2
inhibitor

pitolisant
fluoxetine and pitolisant both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

procainamide
fluoxetine and procainamide both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug.

promethazine
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of promethazine by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2D6 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

propafenone
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of propafenone by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2D6 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

propafenone will increase the level or effect of fluoxetine by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2D6 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

propafenone and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug.

propranolol
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of propranolol by affecting hepatic

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prozac-fluoxetine-342955 17/61



6/22/26, 4:21 PM Prozac (fluoxetine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

enzyme CYP2D6 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

protriptyline
fluoxetine and protriptyline both increase serotonin levels. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug.

quinidine
quinidine will increase the level or effect of fluoxetine by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2D6 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

quinidine and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

rasagiline
rasagiline and fluoxetine both increase serotonin levels. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug. evere CNS toxicity associated with hyperpyrexia has been reported with the
combined treatment of an antidepressant and rasagiline. Avoid combination within
14 days of MAOI use.

ribociclib
ribociclib will increase the level or effect of fluoxetine by affecting hepatic/intestinal
enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

ribociclib increases toxicity of fluoxetine by QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug.

risperidone
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of risperidone by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2D6 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

selegiline transdermal
selegiline transdermal and fluoxetine both decrease serotonin levels. Avoid or Use
Alternate Drug.

selinexor
selinexor, fluoxetine. unspecified interaction mechanism. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug. Patients treated with selinexor may experience neurological toxicities. Avoid
taking selinexor with other medications that may cause dizziness or confusion.

sertraline
sertraline will increase the level or effect of fluoxetine by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2D6 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

fluoxetine and sertraline both increase serotonin levels. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug.

sevoflurane
sevoflurane and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

siponimod
siponimod and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

sofpironium topical

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prozac-fluoxetine-342955 18/61



6/22/26, 4:21 PM Prozac (fluoxetine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of sofpironium topical by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2D6 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Avoid concomitant use
of sofpironium (CYP2D6 substrate) with strong CYP2D6 inhibitors.
Coadministration may result in increased sofpironium levels and risk of adverse
effects.

sotalol
fluoxetine and sotalol both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

St John's Wort
fluoxetine and St John's Wort both increase serotonin levels. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug.

tedizolid
tedizolid, fluoxetine. Either increases effects of the other by Mechanism:
pharmacodynamic synergism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. both increase serotonin
levels; increased risk of serotonin syndrome.

tetrabenazine
tetrabenazine and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug.

thioridazine
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of thioridazine by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2D6 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

timolol
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of timolol by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2D6 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

tipranavir
tipranavir will increase the level or effect of fluoxetine by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2D6 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

tolterodine
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of tolterodine by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2D6 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

trazodone
fluoxetine and trazodone both increase serotonin levels. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug.

trimipramine
fluoxetine and trimipramine both increase serotonin levels. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug.

triptorelin
triptorelin increases toxicity of fluoxetine by QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug. Increases risk of torsades de pointes.

vandetanib
fluoxetine, vandetanib. Either increases toxicity of the other by QTc interval. Avoid
or Use Alternate Drug. Avoid coadministration with drugs known to prolong QT

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prozac-fluoxetine-342955 19/61



6/22/26, 4:21 PM Prozac (fluoxetine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

interval; if a drug known to prolong QT interval must be used, more frequent ECG
monitoring is recommended.

vemurafenib
vemurafenib and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug. Concomitant use of vemurafenib with drugs that prolong QT interval is not
recommended.

venlafaxine
fluoxetine and venlafaxine both increase serotonin levels. Avoid or Use Alternate
Drug.

vilazodone
fluoxetine, vilazodone. Either increases toxicity of the other by serotonin levels.
Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Concomitant therapy should be discontinued
immediately if signs or symptoms of serotonin syndrome emerge and supportive
symptomatic treatment should be initiated. .

voriconazole
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of voriconazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

vortioxetine
fluoxetine, vortioxetine. Either increases effects of the other by serotonin levels.
Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.

ziftomenib
fluoxetine and ziftomenib both increase QTc interval. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug.
Avoid coadministration of ziftomenib with other drugs known to prolong the QTc
interval. If unavoidable, obtain ECGs when initiating, during concomitant use, and as
clinically indicated. Interrupt ziftomenib with QTc interval > 500 ms or a change
from baseline is > 60 ms

zuranolone
fluoxetine, zuranolone. Either increases effects of the other by pharmacodynamic
synergism. Avoid or Use Alternate Drug. Coadministration of zuranolone with other
CNS depressants may increase impairment of psychomotor performance or CNS
depressant effects. If unavoidable, consider dose reduction. .

Monitor Closely (306)

5-HTP
fluoxetine and 5-HTP both increase serotonin levels. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely.

abiraterone
abiraterone increases levels of fluoxetine by affecting hepatic enzyme CYP2D6
metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Avoid coadministration of abiraterone with
substrates of CYP2D6. If alternative therapy cannot be used, exercise caution and
consider a dose reduction of the CYP2D6 substrate.

aceclofenac

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prozac-fluoxetine-342955 20/61



6/22/26, 4:21 PM Prozac (fluoxetine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

fluoxetine, aceclofenac. Either increases toxicity of the other by pharmacodynamic
synergism. Use Caution/Monitor. Increased risk of upper GI bleeding. SSRIs inhib.
serotonin uptake by platelets.

acemetacin
fluoxetine, acemetacin. Either increases toxicity of the other by pharmacodynamic
synergism. Use Caution/Monitor. Increased risk of upper GI bleeding. SSRIs inhib.
serotonin uptake by platelets.

alfuzosin
alfuzosin and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely.

fluoxetine and alfuzosin both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.

almotriptan
almotriptan and fluoxetine both increase serotonin levels. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely.

alosetron
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of alosetron by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2C9/10 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

alpelisib
alpelisib will decrease the level or effect of fluoxetine by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2C9/10 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.

amifampridine
fluoxetine increases toxicity of amifampridine by Other (see comment). Modify
Therapy/Monitor Closely. Comment: Amifampridine can cause seizures.
Coadministration with drugs that lower seizure threshold may increase this risk.

amiodarone
amiodarone will increase the level or effect of fluoxetine by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2D6 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

amitriptyline
amitriptyline and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely.

amoxapine
amoxapine and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely.

amphetamine
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of amphetamine by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2D6 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

fluoxetine and amphetamine both increase serotonin levels. Modify
Therapy/Monitor Closely.

apalutamide

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prozac-fluoxetine-342955 21/61



6/22/26, 4:21 PM Prozac (fluoxetine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

apalutamide will decrease the level or effect of fluoxetine by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C9/10 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Coadministration of
apalutamide, a weak CYP2C9 inducer, with drugs that are CYP2C9 substrates can
result in lower exposure to these medications. Evaluate for loss of therapeutic effect
if medication must be coadministered.

apixaban
fluoxetine increases effects of apixaban by anticoagulation. Use Caution/Monitor.
SSRIs may inhibit platelet aggregation, thus increase bleeding risk when
coadministered with anticoagulants.

apomorphine
apomorphine and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely.

artemether/lumefantrine
fluoxetine and artemether/lumefantrine both increase QTc interval. Modify
Therapy/Monitor Closely.

asenapine
asenapine will increase the level or effect of fluoxetine by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2D6 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

asenapine and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely.

asenapine transdermal
asenapine transdermal and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Modify
Therapy/Monitor Closely.

aspirin
fluoxetine, aspirin. Either increases toxicity of the other by pharmacodynamic
synergism. Use Caution/Monitor. Increased risk of upper GI bleeding. SSRIs inhib.
serotonin uptake by platelets.

aspirin rectal
fluoxetine, aspirin rectal. Either increases toxicity of the other by pharmacodynamic
synergism. Use Caution/Monitor. Increased risk of upper GI bleeding. SSRIs inhib.
serotonin uptake by platelets.

aspirin/citric acid/sodium bicarbonate
fluoxetine, aspirin/citric acid/sodium bicarbonate. Either increases toxicity of the
other by pharmacodynamic synergism. Use Caution/Monitor. Increased risk of upper
GI bleeding. SSRIs inhib. serotonin uptake by platelets.

atomoxetine
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of atomoxetine by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2D6 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Reduced initial doses of
atomoxetine are recommended with strong CYP2D6 inhibitors.

avapritinib
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of avapritinib by affecting

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prozac-fluoxetine-342955 22/61



6/22/26, 4:21 PM Prozac (fluoxetine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

axitinib
fluoxetine increases levels of axitinib by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme
CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

bedaquiline
fluoxetine and bedaquiline both increase QTc interval. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely. ECG should be monitored closely

benzhydrocodone/acetaminophen
benzhydrocodone/acetaminophen, fluoxetine. Either increases effects of the other
by serotonin levels. Use Caution/Monitor. Coadministration of drugs that affect the
serotonergic neurotransmitter system may result in serotonin syndrome. If
concomitant use is warranted, carefully observe the patient, particularly during
treatment initiation and dose adjustment.

bosentan
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of bosentan by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2C9/10 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

brexpiprazole
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of brexpiprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2D6 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Administer half of
the usual brexpiprazole dose when coadministered with strong CYP2D6 inhibitors.
If also administered with a strong/moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor, administer a quarter
of brexpiprazole dose. NOTE: In MDD clinical trials, brexpiprazole dosage was not
adjusted for strong CYP2D6 inhibitors (eg, paroxetine, fluoxetine); thus, CYP
considerations are already factored into general dosing recommendations and
brexpiprazole may be administered without dosage adjustment in patients with
MDD.

buprenorphine subdermal implant
fluoxetine, buprenorphine subdermal implant. Either increases toxicity of the other
by serotonin levels. Use Caution/Monitor. Concomitant use could result in life-
threatening serotonin syndrome. If concomitant use is warranted, carefully observe
the patient, particularly during treatment initiation, and during dose adjustment of
the serotonergic drug. Discontinue buprenorphine if serotonin syndrome is
suspected.

buprenorphine, long-acting injection
fluoxetine, buprenorphine, long-acting injection. Either increases toxicity of the
other by serotonin levels. Use Caution/Monitor. Concomitant use could result in life-
threatening serotonin syndrome. If concomitant use is warranted, carefully observe
the patient, particularly during treatment initiation, and during dose adjustment of
the serotonergic drug. Discontinue buprenorphine if serotonin syndrome is
suspected.

bupropion
bupropion will increase the level or effect of fluoxetine by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2D6 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

cannabidiol

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prozac-fluoxetine-342955 23/61



6/22/26, 4:21 PM Prozac (fluoxetine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of cannabidiol by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Consider reducing
the cannabidiol dose when coadministered with a moderate CYP2C19 inhibitor.

cannabidiol will increase the level or effect of fluoxetine by decreasing metabolism.
Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Cannabidiol may potentially inhibit CYP2C9
activity. Consider reducing the dose when concomitantly using CYP2C9 substrates.

carbamazepine
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of carbamazepine by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.
Monitor plasma levels when used concomitantly

carvedilol
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of carvedilol by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2C9/10 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

celecoxib
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of celecoxib by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2C9/10 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

celecoxib will increase the level or effect of fluoxetine by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2D6 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

fluoxetine, celecoxib. Either increases toxicity of the other by pharmacodynamic
synergism. Use Caution/Monitor. Increased risk of upper GI bleeding. SSRIs inhib.
serotonin uptake by platelets.

chlorpromazine
chlorpromazine and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely.

choline magnesium trisalicylate
fluoxetine, choline magnesium trisalicylate. Either increases toxicity of the other by
pharmacodynamic synergism. Use Caution/Monitor. Increased risk of upper GI
bleeding. SSRIs inhib. serotonin uptake by platelets.

cilostazol
fluoxetine increases toxicity of cilostazol by affecting hepatic enzyme CYP2C19
metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Consider decreasing cilostazol dose;
moderate CYP2C19 inhibitors may increase serum levels of 3,4-dehydrocilostazol
(active metabolite).

cimetidine
cimetidine will increase the level or effect of fluoxetine by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2D6 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

ciprofloxacin
ciprofloxacin and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely.

citalopram

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prozac-fluoxetine-342955 24/61



6/22/26, 4:21 PM Prozac (fluoxetine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

citalopram and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely.

clarithromycin
clarithromycin and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely.

clobazam
clobazam will increase the level or effect of fluoxetine by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2D6 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Lower doses of drugs metabolized by
CYP2D6 may be required when used concomitantly.

clomipramine
clomipramine and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely.

clonidine
clonidine, fluoxetine. Either increases toxicity of the other by pharmacodynamic
synergism. Use Caution/Monitor. Coadministration enhances CNS depressant
effects.

clopidogrel
fluoxetine increases effects of clopidogrel by pharmacodynamic synergism. Use
Caution/Monitor. SSRIs affect platelet activation; coadministration of SSRIs with
clopidogrel may increase the risk of bleeding.

clozapine
fluoxetine increases levels of clozapine by affecting hepatic enzyme CYP2D6
metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Plasma levels of clozapine may be increased,
resulting in increased pharmacologic and toxic effects. Adjust clozapine dose as
needed when initiating or discontinuing certain SSRIs. .

clozapine and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely.

cobicistat
cobicistat will increase the level or effect of fluoxetine by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Carefully titrate dose of the antidepressant to the desired effect,
including using the lowest feasible initial or maintenance dose, and monitor its
response during coadministration with SSRIs and cobicistat.

cocaine topical
fluoxetine and cocaine topical both increase serotonin levels. Modify
Therapy/Monitor Closely.

codeine
fluoxetine will decrease the level or effect of codeine by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2D6 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Prevents conversion of codeine to its
active metabolite morphine

crizotinib
crizotinib and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor. ECG

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prozac-fluoxetine-342955 25/61



6/22/26, 4:21 PM Prozac (fluoxetine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

monitoring is recommended, along with drugs that may prolong the QT interval.

cyproheptadine
cyproheptadine decreases effects of fluoxetine by pharmacodynamic antagonism.
Use Caution/Monitor. Cyproheptadine may diminish the serotonergic effect of SSRIs.

daridorexant
fluoxetine and daridorexant both increase sedation. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely. Coadministration increases risk of CNS depression, which can lead to
additive impairment of psychomotor performance and cause daytime impairment.

darunavir
darunavir will increase the level or effect of fluoxetine by affecting hepatic/intestinal
enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Coadministration with SSRIs,
TCAs, or trazodone may require dose titration of antidepressant to desired effect
(eg, using the lowest feasible initial or maintenance dose). Monitor for
antidepressant response.

dasatinib
dasatinib and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.

defibrotide
defibrotide increases effects of fluoxetine by Other (see comment). Use
Caution/Monitor. Comment: Defibrotide may enhance effects of platelet inhibitors.

degarelix
degarelix and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.

desipramine
desipramine and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely.

desvenlafaxine
desvenlafaxine will increase the level or effect of fluoxetine by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2D6 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Desvenlafaxine inhibits
CYP2D6; with higher desvenlafaxine doses (ie, 400 mg) decrease the CYP2D6
substrate dose by up to 50%; no dosage adjustment needed with desvenlafaxine
doses <100 mg

deutetrabenazine
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of deutetrabenazine by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2D6 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Strong CYP2D6
inhibitors increase the systemic exposure to the active dihydro-metabolites of
deutetrabenazine by approximately 3-fold. Do not exceed 18 mg/dose and 36
mg/day of deutetrabenazine if coadministered with strong CYP2D6 inhibitors.

deutetrabenazine and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.
At the maximum recommended dose, deutetrabenazine does not prolong QT
interval to a clinically relevant extent. Certain circumstances may increase risk of
torsade de pointes and/or sudden death in association with drugs that prolong the
QTc interval (eg, bradycardia, hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia, coadministration

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prozac-fluoxetine-342955 26/61



6/22/26, 4:21 PM Prozac (fluoxetine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

with other drugs that prolong QTc interval, presence of congenital QT
prolongation).

dexfenfluramine
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of dexfenfluramine by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2D6 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

fluoxetine and dexfenfluramine both increase serotonin levels. Modify
Therapy/Monitor Closely.

dextroamphetamine
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of dextroamphetamine by affecting
hepatic enzyme CYP2D6 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

fluoxetine and dextroamphetamine both increase serotonin levels. Modify
Therapy/Monitor Closely.

dextroamphetamine transdermal
fluoxetine, dextroamphetamine transdermal. Either increases effects of the other by
serotonin levels. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Initiate with lower doses and
monitor for signs and symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during
initiation or dosage increase. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue
dextroamphetamine transdermal and concomitant serotonergic drug(s).

fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of dextroamphetamine transdermal by
affecting hepatic enzyme CYP2D6 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.
Initiate with lower doses and monitor patients for signs and symptoms of serotonin
syndrome, particularly during dextroamphetamine initiation and after a dosage
increase. If serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue dextroamphetamine
transdermal and CYP2D6 inhibitor.

diazepam
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of diazepam by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

diazepam buccal
diazepam buccal, fluoxetine. Either increases effects of the other by
pharmacodynamic synergism. Use Caution/Monitor. Coadministration may
potentiate the CNS-depressant effects of each drug.

fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of diazepam buccal by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Strong or moderate CYP2C19
inhibitors may decrease rate of diazepam elimination, thereby increasing adverse
reactions to diazepam.

diazepam intranasal
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of diazepam intranasal by affecting
hepatic enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Strong or moderate
CYP2C19 inhibitors may decrease rate of diazepam elimination, thereby increasing
adverse reactions to diazepam.

diazepam intranasal, fluoxetine. Either increases effects of the other by

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prozac-fluoxetine-342955 27/61



6/22/26, 4:21 PM Prozac (fluoxetine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

pharmacodynamic synergism. Use Caution/Monitor. Coadministration may
potentiate the CNS-depressant effects of each drug.

dichlorphenamide
dichlorphenamide and fluoxetine both decrease serum potassium. Use
Caution/Monitor.

diclofenac
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of diclofenac by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2C9/10 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

fluoxetine, diclofenac. Either increases toxicity of the other by pharmacodynamic
synergism. Use Caution/Monitor. Increased risk of upper GI bleeding. SSRIs inhib.
serotonin uptake by platelets.

difelikefalin
difelikefalin and fluoxetine both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

diflunisal
fluoxetine, diflunisal. Either increases toxicity of the other by pharmacodynamic
synergism. Use Caution/Monitor. Increased risk of upper GI bleeding. SSRIs inhib.
serotonin uptake by platelets.

dihydroergotamine
fluoxetine and dihydroergotamine both increase serotonin levels. Modify
Therapy/Monitor Closely.

dihydroergotamine intranasal
fluoxetine and dihydroergotamine intranasal both increase serotonin levels. Modify
Therapy/Monitor Closely.

dofetilide
dofetilide and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely.

dolasetron
dolasetron and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.

donepezil
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of donepezil by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2D6 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

donepezil and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.

dordaviprone
dordaviprone and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.
Increase the frequency of ECG and electrolyte monitoring.

doxepin
doxepin and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.

dronedarone

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prozac-fluoxetine-342955 28/61



6/22/26, 4:21 PM Prozac (fluoxetine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

dronedarone and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely.

droperidol
droperidol and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely.

edoxaban
fluoxetine increases effects of edoxaban by anticoagulation. Use Caution/Monitor.
SSRIs may inhibit platelet aggregation, thus increase bleeding risk when
coadministered with anticoagulants.

efavirenz
efavirenz and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.

eletriptan
eletriptan and fluoxetine both increase serotonin levels. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely.

eliglustat
eliglustat increases levels of fluoxetine by affecting hepatic enzyme CYP2D6
metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Monitor therapeutic drug
concentrations, as indicated, or consider reducing the dosage of the concomitant
drug and titrate to clinical effect.

eluxadoline
fluoxetine increases levels of eluxadoline by affecting hepatic enzyme CYP2D6
metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. As a precautionary measure due to incomplete
information on the metabolism of eluxadoline, use caution when coadministered
with strong CYP2D6 inhibitors.

elvitegravir/cobicistat/emtricitabine/tenofovir DF
elvitegravir/cobicistat/emtricitabine/tenofovir DF increases levels of fluoxetine by
affecting hepatic enzyme CYP2D6 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.
Cobicistat is a CYP2D6 inhibitor; caution with CYP2D6 substrates for which
elevated plasma concentrations are associated with serious and/or life-threatening
events.

elvitegravir/cobicistat/emtricitabine/tenofovir DF decreases levels of fluoxetine by
affecting hepatic enzyme CYP2C9/10 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Elvitegravir
is a moderate CYP2C9 inducer.

encainide
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of encainide by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2D6 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

epinephrine
epinephrine and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely.

epinephrine racemic
epinephrine racemic and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Modify

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prozac-fluoxetine-342955 29/61



6/22/26, 4:21 PM Prozac (fluoxetine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Therapy/Monitor Closely.

ergotamine
fluoxetine and ergotamine both increase serotonin levels. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely.

eribulin
eribulin and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.

erythromycin base
erythromycin base and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Modify
Therapy/Monitor Closely.

erythromycin ethylsuccinate
erythromycin ethylsuccinate and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Modify
Therapy/Monitor Closely.

erythromycin lactobionate
erythromycin lactobionate and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Modify
Therapy/Monitor Closely.

erythromycin stearate
erythromycin stearate and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Modify
Therapy/Monitor Closely.

escitalopram
escitalopram and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely.

etodolac
fluoxetine, etodolac. Either increases toxicity of the other by pharmacodynamic
synergism. Use Caution/Monitor. Increased risk of upper GI bleeding. SSRIs inhib.
serotonin uptake by platelets.

etravirine
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of etravirine by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2C9/10 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

ezogabine
ezogabine and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor. Slight
and transient QT-prolongation observed with ezogabine, particularly when dose
titrated to 1200 mg/day. QT interval should be monitored when ezogabine is
prescribed with agents known to increase QT interval.

fedratinib
fedratinib will increase the level or effect of fluoxetine by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2D6 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Adjust dose of drugs that are CYP2D6
substrates as necessary.

fenbufen
fluoxetine, fenbufen. Either increases toxicity of the other by pharmacodynamic
synergism. Use Caution/Monitor. Increased risk of upper GI bleeding. SSRIs inhib.

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prozac-fluoxetine-342955 30/61



6/22/26, 4:21 PM Prozac (fluoxetine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

serotonin uptake by platelets.

fenfluramine
fluoxetine and fenfluramine both increase serotonin levels. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely.

fenfluramine, fluoxetine. Either increases effects of the other by serotonin levels.
Use Caution/Monitor. Coadministration with drugs that increase serotoninergic
effects may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome.

fenoprofen
fluoxetine, fenoprofen. Either increases toxicity of the other by pharmacodynamic
synergism. Use Caution/Monitor. Increased risk of upper GI bleeding. SSRIs inhib.
serotonin uptake by platelets.

fesoterodine
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of fesoterodine by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2D6 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

finerenone
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of finerenone by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.
Monitor serum potassium during initiation and dosage adjustment of either
finererone or weak CYP3A4 inhibitors. Adjust finererone dosage as needed.

fingolimod
fingolimod and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.

fish oil triglycerides
fish oil triglycerides will increase the level or effect of fluoxetine by anticoagulation.
Use Caution/Monitor. Prolonged bleeding reported in patients taking antiplatelet
agents or anticoagulants and oral omega-3 fatty acids. Periodically monitor
bleeding time in patients receiving fish oil triglycerides and concomitant antiplatelet
agents or anticoagulants.

flecainide
flecainide and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.

flibanserin
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of flibanserin by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Increased
flibanserin adverse effects may occur if coadministered with multiple weak CYP3A4
inhibitors.

fluconazole
fluconazole and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely.

flurbiprofen
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of flurbiprofen by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C9/10 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

fluoxetine, flurbiprofen. Either increases toxicity of the other by pharmacodynamic

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prozac-fluoxetine-342955 31/61



6/22/26, 4:21 PM Prozac (fluoxetine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

synergism. Use Caution/Monitor. Increased risk of upper GI bleeding. SSRIs inhib.
serotonin uptake by platelets.

fluvastatin
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of fluvastatin by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2C9/10 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

fondaparinux
fluoxetine increases effects of fondaparinux by anticoagulation. Use
Caution/Monitor. SSRIs may inhibit platelet aggregation, thus increase bleeding risk
when coadministered with anticoagulants.

foscarnet
fluoxetine and foscarnet both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.

fosphenytoin
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of fosphenytoin by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C9/10 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

fostemsavir
fluoxetine and fostemsavir both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor. QTc
prolongation reported with higher than recommended doses of fostemsavir.

frovatriptan
frovatriptan and fluoxetine both increase serotonin levels. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely.

gabapentin
gabapentin, fluoxetine. Either increases effects of the other by pharmacodynamic
synergism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Coadministration of CNS depressants
can result in serious, life-threatening, and fatal respiratory depression. Use lowest
dose possible and monitor for respiratory depression and sedation.

gabapentin enacarbil
gabapentin enacarbil, fluoxetine. Either increases effects of the other by
pharmacodynamic synergism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Coadministration of
CNS depressants can result in serious, life-threatening, and fatal respiratory
depression. Use lowest dose possible and monitor for respiratory depression and
sedation.

ganaxolone
fluoxetine and ganaxolone both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

gemifloxacin
gemifloxacin and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely.

gepirone
gepirone and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.

gepirone and fluoxetine both increase serotonin levels. Use Caution/Monitor.
Monitor for symptoms of serotonin syndrome when gepirone is used gepirone with
other drugs that may affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter systems. If serotonin

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prozac-fluoxetine-342955 32/61



6/22/26, 4:21 PM Prozac (fluoxetine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

syndrome occurs, consider discontinue gepirone and/or concomitant serotonergic
drug.

givinostat
fluoxetine and givinostat both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor. If
coadministered, obtain ECGs when initiating, during concomitant use, and as
clinically indicated. Withhold if QTc interval >500 ms or a change from baseline
>60 ms.

glimepiride
fluoxetine increases effects of glimepiride by unspecified interaction mechanism.
Use Caution/Monitor. Risk of hypoglycemia.

glipizide
fluoxetine increases effects of glipizide by unspecified interaction mechanism. Use
Caution/Monitor. Risk of hypoglycemia.

glyburide
fluoxetine increases effects of glyburide by unspecified interaction mechanism. Use
Caution/Monitor. Risk of hypoglycemia.

granisetron
granisetron and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.

green tea
green tea, fluoxetine. Other (see comment). Use Caution/Monitor. Comment:
Combination may increase risk of bleeding.

haloperidol
fluoxetine and haloperidol both increase QTc interval. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely.

hydrocodone
hydrocodone, fluoxetine. Either increases effects of the other by serotonin levels.
Use Caution/Monitor. Coadministration of drugs that affect the serotonergic
neurotransmitter system may result in serotonin syndrome. If concomitant use is
warranted, carefully observe the patient, particularly during treatment initiation and
dose adjustment.

ibrutinib
ibrutinib will increase the level or effect of fluoxetine by anticoagulation. Use
Caution/Monitor. Ibrutinib may increase the risk of hemorrhage in patients receiving
antiplatelet or anticoagulant therapies and monitor for signs of bleeding.

ibuprofen
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of ibuprofen by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2C9/10 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

fluoxetine, ibuprofen. Either increases toxicity of the other by pharmacodynamic
synergism. Use Caution/Monitor. Increased risk of upper GI bleeding. SSRIs inhib.
serotonin uptake by platelets.

ibuprofen IV

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prozac-fluoxetine-342955 33/61



6/22/26, 4:21 PM Prozac (fluoxetine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of ibuprofen IV by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C9/10 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

fluoxetine, ibuprofen IV. Either increases toxicity of the other by pharmacodynamic
synergism. Use Caution/Monitor. Increased risk of upper GI bleeding. SSRIs inhib.
serotonin uptake by platelets.

icosapent ethyl
icosapent ethyl, fluoxetine. Either increases effects of the other by
pharmacodynamic synergism. Use Caution/Monitor. Icosapent may prolong
bleeding time. Periodically monitor if coadministered with other drugs that affect
bleeding.

iloperidone
fluoxetine increases levels of iloperidone by affecting hepatic enzyme CYP2D6
metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Reduce iloperidone dose if
coadministered with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor (see Dosage Modifications in drug
monograph).

imatinib
imatinib will increase the level or effect of fluoxetine by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2D6 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

imipramine
imipramine and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely.

indacaterol, inhaled
indacaterol, inhaled and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Modify
Therapy/Monitor Closely. Fluoxetine prolongs the QT interval; the prescribing
information for fluoxetine recommends avoiding concurrent use of other drugs that
may prolong the QT interval; risk may be increased with higher doses and/or when
associated with hypokalemia; drugs that prolong the QTc interval may potentiate
the effects of beta2 agonists on the cardiovascular system

indomethacin
fluoxetine, indomethacin. Either increases toxicity of the other by pharmacodynamic
synergism. Use Caution/Monitor. Increased risk of upper GI bleeding. SSRIs inhib.
serotonin uptake by platelets.

insulin aspart
fluoxetine increases effects of insulin aspart by unspecified interaction mechanism.
Use Caution/Monitor. Concomitant use of insulin and fluoxetine may require insulin
dosage adjustment and increased glucose monitoring.

insulin aspart protamine/insulin aspart
fluoxetine increases effects of insulin aspart protamine/insulin aspart by unspecified
interaction mechanism. Use Caution/Monitor. Concomitant use of insulin and
fluoxetine may require insulin dosage adjustment and increased glucose
monitoring.

insulin degludec

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prozac-fluoxetine-342955 34/61



6/22/26, 4:21 PM Prozac (fluoxetine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

fluoxetine, insulin degludec. Either increases effects of the other by
pharmacodynamic synergism. Use Caution/Monitor. Both drugs decrease blood
glucose.

fluoxetine increases effects of insulin degludec by unspecified interaction
mechanism. Use Caution/Monitor. Concomitant use of insulin and fluoxetine may
require insulin dosage adjustment and increased glucose monitoring.

insulin degludec/insulin aspart
fluoxetine, insulin degludec/insulin aspart. Either increases effects of the other by
pharmacodynamic synergism. Use Caution/Monitor. Both drugs decrease blood
glucose.

insulin detemir
fluoxetine increases effects of insulin detemir by unspecified interaction mechanism.
Use Caution/Monitor. Concomitant use of insulin and fluoxetine may require insulin
dosage adjustment and increased glucose monitoring.

insulin glargine
fluoxetine increases effects of insulin glargine by unspecified interaction
mechanism. Use Caution/Monitor. Concomitant use of insulin and fluoxetine may
require insulin dosage adjustment and increased glucose monitoring.

insulin glulisine
fluoxetine increases effects of insulin glulisine by unspecified interaction
mechanism. Use Caution/Monitor. Concomitant use of insulin and fluoxetine may
require insulin dosage adjustment and increased glucose monitoring.

insulin icodec
fluoxetine increases effects of insulin icodec by pharmacodynamic synergism. Use
Caution/Monitor. Concomitant use of insulin and fluoxetine may require insulin
dosage adjustment and increased glucose monitoring.

insulin inhaled
fluoxetine, insulin inhaled. Either increases effects of the other by pharmacodynamic
synergism. Use Caution/Monitor. Both drugs decrease blood glucose.

fluoxetine increases effects of insulin inhaled by unspecified interaction mechanism.
Use Caution/Monitor. Concomitant use of insulin and fluoxetine may require insulin
dosage adjustment and increased glucose monitoring.

insulin isophane human/insulin regular human
fluoxetine increases effects of insulin isophane human/insulin regular human by
unspecified interaction mechanism. Use Caution/Monitor. Concomitant use of insulin
and fluoxetine may require insulin dosage adjustment and increased glucose
monitoring.

insulin lispro
fluoxetine increases effects of insulin lispro by unspecified interaction mechanism.
Use Caution/Monitor. Concomitant use of insulin and fluoxetine may require insulin
dosage adjustment and increased glucose monitoring.

insulin lispro protamine/insulin lispro

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prozac-fluoxetine-342955 35/61



6/22/26, 4:21 PM Prozac (fluoxetine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

fluoxetine increases effects of insulin lispro protamine/insulin lispro by unspecified
interaction mechanism. Use Caution/Monitor. Concomitant use of insulin and
fluoxetine may require insulin dosage adjustment and increased glucose
monitoring.

insulin NPH
fluoxetine increases effects of insulin NPH by unspecified interaction mechanism.
Use Caution/Monitor. Concomitant use of insulin and fluoxetine may require insulin
dosage adjustment and increased glucose monitoring.

insulin regular human
fluoxetine increases effects of insulin regular human by unspecified interaction
mechanism. Use Caution/Monitor. Concomitant use of insulin and fluoxetine may
require insulin dosage adjustment and increased glucose monitoring.

ioflupane I 123
fluoxetine decreases effects of ioflupane I 123 by receptor binding competition. Use
Caution/Monitor. Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) may alter binding of
ioflupane I 123 to dopamine transporter, interfering with image interpretation. If
clinically appropriate, consider discontinuing SSRI at least 5 half-lives prior to
ioflupane I 123 administration.

isavuconazonium sulfate
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of isavuconazonium sulfate by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

isoniazid
fluoxetine and isoniazid both increase serotonin levels. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely.

itraconazole
itraconazole and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.

ivacaftor
fluoxetine increases levels of ivacaftor by affecting hepatic/intestinal enzyme
CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Monitor when coadministered with
weak CYP3A4 inhibitors .

ketoconazole
fluoxetine and ketoconazole both increase QTc interval. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely.

ketoprofen
fluoxetine, ketoprofen. Either increases toxicity of the other by pharmacodynamic
synergism. Use Caution/Monitor. Increased risk of upper GI bleeding. SSRIs inhib.
serotonin uptake by platelets.

ketorolac
fluoxetine, ketorolac. Either increases toxicity of the other by pharmacodynamic
synergism. Use Caution/Monitor. Increased risk of upper GI bleeding. SSRIs inhib.
serotonin uptake by platelets.

ketorolac intranasal

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prozac-fluoxetine-342955 36/61



6/22/26, 4:21 PM Prozac (fluoxetine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

fluoxetine, ketorolac intranasal. Either increases toxicity of the other by
pharmacodynamic synergism. Use Caution/Monitor. Increased risk of upper GI
bleeding. SSRIs inhib. serotonin uptake by platelets.

L-tryptophan
fluoxetine and L-tryptophan both increase serotonin levels. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely.

lamotrigine
lamotrigine increases toxicity of fluoxetine by unspecified interaction mechanism.
Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. CNS depressants may increase the toxic effects of
selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors; psychomotor impairment may be enhanced.

lapatinib
fluoxetine and lapatinib both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.

lemborexant
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of lemborexant by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.
Lower nightly dose of lemborexant recommended if coadministered with weak
CYP3A4 inhibitors. See drug monograph for specific dosage modification.

lemborexant, fluoxetine. Either increases effects of the other by sedation. Modify
Therapy/Monitor Closely. Dosage adjustment may be necessary if lemborexant is
coadministered with other CNS depressants because of potentially additive effects.

lenvatinib
fluoxetine and lenvatinib both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.
Lenvatinib prescribing information recommends monitoring ECG closely when
coadministered with QT prolonging drugs.

levofloxacin
fluoxetine and levofloxacin both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.

levoketoconazole
fluoxetine and levoketoconazole both increase QTc interval. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely.

lisdexamfetamine
fluoxetine, lisdexamfetamine. Either increases effects of the other by serotonin
levels. Use Caution/Monitor. Initiate with lower doses and monitor for signs and
symptoms of serotonin syndrome, particularly during initiation or dosage increase. If
serotonin syndrome occurs, discontinue along with concomitant serotonergic
drug(s).

lithium
fluoxetine and lithium both increase serotonin levels. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely.

lithium and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.

lofexidine

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prozac-fluoxetine-342955 37/61



6/22/26, 4:21 PM Prozac (fluoxetine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of lofexidine by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2D6 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Concomitant use of
lofexidine with strong CYP2D6 inhibitors may increase lofexidine plasma levels.
Monitor for symptoms of orthostasis and bradycardia if coadministered with a
CYP2D6 inhibitor. Consider lofexidine dose reduction.

fluoxetine and lofexidine both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor. ECG
monitoring is recommended.

loratadine
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of loratadine by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2D6 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

lorcaserin
lorcaserin will increase the level or effect of fluoxetine by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2D6 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

lornoxicam
fluoxetine, lornoxicam. Either increases toxicity of the other by pharmacodynamic
synergism. Use Caution/Monitor. Increased risk of upper GI bleeding. SSRIs inhib.
serotonin uptake by platelets.

losartan
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of losartan by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2C9/10 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. May inhibit the conversion of
losartan to its active metabolite E-3174. Importance of interaction not established;
monitor individual therapeutic response to determine losartan dosage.

lsd
fluoxetine and lsd both increase serotonin levels. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.

lumacaftor/ivacaftor
lumacaftor/ivacaftor, fluoxetine. affecting hepatic enzyme CYP2C9/10 metabolism.
Use Caution/Monitor. In vitro studies suggest that lumacaftor may induce and
ivacaftor may inhibit CYP2C9 substrates. .

lumefantrine
fluoxetine and lumefantrine both increase QTc interval. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely.

lurasidone
lurasidone, fluoxetine. Either increases toxicity of the other by Other (see comment).
Use Caution/Monitor. Comment: Potential for increased CNS depressant effects
when used concurrently; monitor for increased adverse effects and toxicity.

meclofenamate
fluoxetine, meclofenamate. Either increases toxicity of the other by
pharmacodynamic synergism. Use Caution/Monitor. Increased risk of upper GI
bleeding. SSRIs inhib. serotonin uptake by platelets.

mefenamic acid
fluoxetine, mefenamic acid. Either increases toxicity of the other by
pharmacodynamic synergism. Use Caution/Monitor. Increased risk of upper GI

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prozac-fluoxetine-342955 38/61



6/22/26, 4:21 PM Prozac (fluoxetine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

bleeding. SSRIs inhib. serotonin uptake by platelets.

melatonin
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of melatonin by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP1A2 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Monitor melatonin effects if
coadministered with moderate CYP1A2 inhibitors

meloxicam
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of meloxicam by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2C9/10 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

fluoxetine, meloxicam. Either increases toxicity of the other by pharmacodynamic
synergism. Use Caution/Monitor. Increased risk of upper GI bleeding. SSRIs inhib.
serotonin uptake by platelets.

methadone
fluoxetine and methadone both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.

methylphenidate transdermal
methylphenidate transdermal will increase the level or effect of fluoxetine by
decreasing metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Consider decreasing the
dose of these drugs when given coadministered with methylphenidate. Monitor for
drug toxiticities when initiating or discontinuing methylphenidate.

midazolam intranasal
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of midazolam intranasal by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.
Coadministration of mild CYP3A4 inhibitors with midazolam intranasal may cause
higher midazolam systemic exposure, which may prolong sedation.

midazolam intranasal, fluoxetine. Either increases toxicity of the other by
pharmacodynamic synergism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Concomitant use of
barbiturates, alcohol, or other CNS depressants may increase the risk of
hypoventilation, airway obstruction, desaturation, or apnea and may contribute to
profound and/or prolonged drug effect.

mifepristone
mifepristone, fluoxetine. QTc interval. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Use
alternatives if available.

milsaperidone
fluoxetine increases levels of milsaperidone by affecting hepatic enzyme CYP2D6
metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Reduce miIsaperidone dose if
coadministered with a strong CYP2D6 inhibitor (see Dosage Modifications in drug
monograph).

mipomersen
mipomersen, fluoxetine. Either increases toxicity of the other by Other (see
comment). Use Caution/Monitor. Comment: Both drugs have potential to increase
hepatic enzymes; monitor LFTs.

mirabegron

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prozac-fluoxetine-342955 39/61



6/22/26, 4:21 PM Prozac (fluoxetine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

mirabegron will increase the level or effect of fluoxetine by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2D6 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

mirtazapine
fluoxetine and mirtazapine both increase serotonin levels. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely.

mitapivat
mitapivat decreases levels of fluoxetine by affecting hepatic enzyme CYP2C9/10
metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Monitor patients for loss of therapeutic effect if
taking sensitive CYP2C9/10 substrates.

morphine
fluoxetine and morphine both increase serotonin levels. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely.

moxifloxacin
fluoxetine and moxifloxacin both increase QTc interval. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely.

nabumetone
fluoxetine, nabumetone. Either increases toxicity of the other by pharmacodynamic
synergism. Use Caution/Monitor. Increased risk of upper GI bleeding. SSRIs inhib.
serotonin uptake by platelets.

naproxen
fluoxetine, naproxen. Either increases toxicity of the other by pharmacodynamic
synergism. Use Caution/Monitor. Increased risk of upper GI bleeding. SSRIs inhib.
serotonin uptake by platelets.

naratriptan
naratriptan and fluoxetine both increase serotonin levels. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely.

nateglinide
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of nateglinide by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C9/10 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

nifedipine
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of nifedipine by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Consider
initiating nifedipine at the lowest dose available if given concomitantly with this
medication

nilotinib
fluoxetine and nilotinib both increase QTc interval. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.

nitisinone
nitisinone will increase the level or effect of fluoxetine by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2C9/10 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Nitisinone inhibits CYP2C9. Caution
if CYP2C9 substrate coadministered, particularly those with a narrow therapeutic
index.

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prozac-fluoxetine-342955 40/61



6/22/26, 4:21 PM Prozac (fluoxetine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

nortriptyline
nortriptyline and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely.

octreotide
fluoxetine and octreotide both increase QTc interval. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely.

octreotide (Antidote)
fluoxetine and octreotide (Antidote) both increase QTc interval. Modify
Therapy/Monitor Closely.

ofloxacin
fluoxetine and ofloxacin both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.

olanzapine
olanzapine and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.

olanzapine/samidorphan
fluoxetine, olanzapine/samidorphan. Either increases effects of the other by
pharmacodynamic synergism. Use Caution/Monitor. Coadministration of diazepam,
alcohol, or other CNS acting drugs may potentiate orthostatic hypotension
observed with olanzapine. Additive sedation may also occur.

olodaterol inhaled
fluoxetine and olodaterol inhaled both increase QTc interval. Modify
Therapy/Monitor Closely. Fluoxetine prolongs the QT interval; the prescribing
information for fluoxetine recommends avoiding concurrent use of other drugs that
may prolong the QT interval; risk may be increased with higher doses and/or when
associated with hypokalemia; drugs that prolong the QTc interval may potentiate
the effects of beta2 agonists on the cardiovascular system

osilodrostat
osilodrostat and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.

osimertinib
osimertinib and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor. Conduct
periodic monitoring with ECGs and electrolytes in patients taking drugs known to
prolong the QTc interval.

oxaprozin
fluoxetine, oxaprozin. Either increases toxicity of the other by pharmacodynamic
synergism. Use Caution/Monitor. Increased risk of upper GI bleeding. SSRIs inhib.
serotonin uptake by platelets.

ozanimod
ozanimod and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely. The potential additive effects on heart rate, treatment with ozanimod
should generally not be initiated in patients who are concurrently treated with QT
prolonging drugs with known arrhythmogenic properties.

paliperidone

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prozac-fluoxetine-342955 41/61



6/22/26, 4:21 PM Prozac (fluoxetine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

fluoxetine and paliperidone both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.

parecoxib
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of parecoxib by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2C9/10 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

fluoxetine, parecoxib. Either increases toxicity of the other by pharmacodynamic
synergism. Use Caution/Monitor. Increased risk of upper GI bleeding. SSRIs inhib.
serotonin uptake by platelets.

paroxetine
fluoxetine and paroxetine both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.

pasireotide
fluoxetine and pasireotide both increase QTc interval. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely.

peginterferon alfa 2b
peginterferon alfa 2b, fluoxetine. Other (see comment). Use Caution/Monitor.
Comment: When patients are administered peginterferon alpha-2b with CYP2D6
substrates, the therapeutic effect of these drugs may be altered. Peginterferon
alpha-2b may increase or decrease levels of CYP2D6 substrate.

pentazocine
fluoxetine and pentazocine both increase serotonin levels. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely.

pentoxifylline
pentoxifylline increases toxicity of fluoxetine by anticoagulation. Use
Caution/Monitor. May increase bleeding.

perhexiline
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of perhexiline by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2D6 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

phenytoin
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of phenytoin by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2C9/10 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

pirbuterol
fluoxetine and pirbuterol both increase QTc interval. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely. Fluoxetine prolongs the QT interval; the prescribing information for
fluoxetine recommends avoiding concurrent use of other drugs that may prolong
the QT interval; risk may be increased with higher doses and/or when associated
with hypokalemia; drugs that prolong the QTc interval may potentiate the effects of
beta2 agonists on the cardiovascular system

piroxicam
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of piroxicam by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2C9/10 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

fluoxetine, piroxicam. Either increases toxicity of the other by pharmacodynamic

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prozac-fluoxetine-342955 42/61



6/22/26, 4:21 PM Prozac (fluoxetine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

synergism. Use Caution/Monitor. Increased risk of upper GI bleeding. SSRIs inhib.
serotonin uptake by platelets.

pitolisant
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of pitolisant by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2D6 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. If coadministered with
strong CYP2D6 inhibitors, initiate pitolisant at 8.9 mg/day and increase after 7 days
to maximum of 17.8 mg/day. For patients currently taking pitolisant, reduce
pitolisant dose by half upon initiating strong CYP2D6 inhibitors.

posaconazole
fluoxetine and posaconazole both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.

pregabalin
pregabalin, fluoxetine. Either increases effects of the other by pharmacodynamic
synergism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Coadministration of CNS depressants
can result in serious, life-threatening, and fatal respiratory depression. Use lowest
dose possible and monitor for respiratory depression and sedation.

primaquine
primaquine and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.

prochlorperazine
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of prochlorperazine by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2D6 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

prochlorperazine and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.

promazine
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of promazine by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2D6 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

promazine and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely.

promethazine
promethazine and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.

protriptyline
protriptyline and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely.

quetiapine
quetiapine, fluoxetine. Either increases toxicity of the other by QTc interval. Use
Caution/Monitor. Avoid use with drugs that prolong QT and in patients with risk
factors for prolonged QT interval. Postmarketing cases show QT prolongation with
overdose in patients with concomitant illness or with drugs known to cause
electrolyte imbalance or prolong QT.

quinine
fluoxetine and quinine both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.

quizartinib

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prozac-fluoxetine-342955 43/61



6/22/26, 4:21 PM Prozac (fluoxetine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

quizartinib, fluoxetine. Either increases effects of the other by QTc interval. Modify
Therapy/Monitor Closely. Monitor patients more frequently with ECG if
coadministered with QT prolonging drugs.

ramelteon
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of ramelteon by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2C9/10 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

ranolazine
fluoxetine and ranolazine both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.

remifentanil
remifentanil, fluoxetine. Either increases toxicity of the other by serotonin levels.
Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.

remimazolam
remimazolam, fluoxetine. Either increases toxicity of the other by sedation. Modify
Therapy/Monitor Closely. Coadministration may result in profound sedation,
respiratory depression, coma, and/or death. Continuously monitor vital signs during
sedation and recovery period if coadministered. Carefully titrate remimazolam dose
if administered with opioid analgesics and/or sedative/hypnotics.

revumenib
revumenib and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor. ECG
monitoring recommended if concomitant use can?t be avoided and withhold
therapy if QTc interval is >480 msec; restart therapy after QTc interval returns to
<480 msec

rilpivirine
rilpivirine increases toxicity of fluoxetine by QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.
Rilpivirine should be used with caution when co-administered with a drug with a
known risk of Torsades de Pointes.

risperidone
fluoxetine and risperidone both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.

rivaroxaban
fluoxetine increases effects of rivaroxaban by pharmacodynamic synergism. Use
Caution/Monitor. Combination may increase risk of bleeding.

rizatriptan
rizatriptan and fluoxetine both increase serotonin levels. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely.

rolapitant
rolapitant will increase the level or effect of fluoxetine by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2D6 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Rolapitant may increase plasma
concentrations of CYP2D6 substrates for at least 28 days following rolapitant
administration.

romidepsin
fluoxetine and romidepsin both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prozac-fluoxetine-342955 44/61



6/22/26, 4:21 PM Prozac (fluoxetine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

rucaparib
rucaparib will increase the level or effect of fluoxetine by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2C9/10 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Adjust dosage of
CYP2C9 substrates, if clinically indicated.

safinamide
fluoxetine, safinamide. Either increases toxicity of the other by serotonin levels. Use
Caution/Monitor. Monitor patients for symptoms of serotonin syndrome if SSRIs are
coadministered with safinamide.

salicylates (non-asa)
fluoxetine, salicylates (non-asa). Either increases toxicity of the other by
pharmacodynamic synergism. Use Caution/Monitor. Increased risk of upper GI
bleeding. SSRIs inhib. serotonin uptake by platelets.

salmeterol
fluoxetine and salmeterol both increase QTc interval. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely. Fluoxetine prolongs the QT interval; the prescribing information for
fluoxetine recommends avoiding concurrent use of other drugs that may prolong
the QT interval; risk may be increased with higher doses and/or when associated
with hypokalemia; drugs that prolong the QTc interval may potentiate the effects of
beta2 agonists on the cardiovascular system

salsalate
fluoxetine, salsalate. Either increases toxicity of the other by pharmacodynamic
synergism. Use Caution/Monitor. Increased risk of upper GI bleeding. SSRIs inhib.
serotonin uptake by platelets.

SAMe
fluoxetine and SAMe both increase serotonin levels. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely.

selpercatinib
selpercatinib increases toxicity of fluoxetine by QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.

sertraline
sertraline and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely.

sodium sulfate/?magnesium sulfate/potassium chloride
sodium sulfate/?magnesium sulfate/potassium chloride increases effects of
fluoxetine by unknown mechanism. Use Caution/Monitor. Closely monitor for
evidence of seizures when using bowel preps together with drugs that lower the
seizure threshold.

sodium sulfate/potassium chloride/magnesium sulfate/polyethylene glycol
fluoxetine, sodium sulfate/potassium chloride/magnesium sulfate/polyethylene
glycol. Other (see comment). Use Caution/Monitor. Comment: Caution when bowel
preps are used with drugs that cause SIADH or NSAIDs; increased risk for water
retention or electrolyte imbalance.

sodium sulfate/potassium sulfate/magnesium sulfate

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prozac-fluoxetine-342955 45/61



6/22/26, 4:21 PM Prozac (fluoxetine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

sodium sulfate/potassium sulfate/magnesium sulfate increases effects of fluoxetine
by unknown mechanism. Use Caution/Monitor. Closely monitor for evidence of
seizures when using bowel preps together with drugs that lower the seizure
threshold.

solifenacin
solifenacin and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.

sorafenib
sorafenib and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.

sparsentan
sparsentan will decrease the level or effect of fluoxetine by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C9/10 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Sparsentan (a CYP2C9
inducer) decreases exposure of CYP2C9 substrates and reduces efficacy related to
these substrates.

sufentanil SL
sufentanil SL, fluoxetine. Either increases effects of the other by serotonin levels.
Use Caution/Monitor. Coadministration of drugs that affect the serotonergic
neurotransmitter system may result in serotonin syndrome. If concomitant use is
warranted, carefully observe the patient, particularly during treatment initiation and
dose adjustment.

sulfamethoxazole
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of sulfamethoxazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C9/10 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

sulfasalazine
fluoxetine, sulfasalazine. Either increases toxicity of the other by pharmacodynamic
synergism. Use Caution/Monitor. Increased risk of upper GI bleeding. SSRIs inhib.
serotonin uptake by platelets.

sulindac
fluoxetine, sulindac. Either increases toxicity of the other by pharmacodynamic
synergism. Use Caution/Monitor. Increased risk of upper GI bleeding. SSRIs inhib.
serotonin uptake by platelets.

sumatriptan
sumatriptan and fluoxetine both increase serotonin levels. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely.

sumatriptan intranasal
sumatriptan intranasal and fluoxetine both increase serotonin levels. Modify
Therapy/Monitor Closely.

sunitinib
sunitinib and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely.

tacrolimus
tacrolimus and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.

taletrectinib

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prozac-fluoxetine-342955 46/61



6/22/26, 4:21 PM Prozac (fluoxetine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

taletrectinib and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.
Concomitant use may increase the risk of QTc interval prolongation. If concomitant
use is unavoidable, adjust the frequency of ECG and electrolyte monitoring.

tamoxifen
fluoxetine will decrease the level or effect of tamoxifen by decreasing metabolism.
Use Caution/Monitor. Inhibition of CYP2D6 metabolism to tamoxifen's active
metabolite, endoxifen.

tamsulosin
fluoxetine increases levels of tamsulosin by affecting hepatic enzyme CYP2D6
metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

tapentadol
fluoxetine and tapentadol both increase serotonin levels. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely.

telavancin
fluoxetine and telavancin both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.

terbinafine
terbinafine will increase the level or effect of fluoxetine by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2D6 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Assess need to reduce dose
of CYP2D6-metabolized drug.

terbutaline
fluoxetine and terbutaline both increase QTc interval. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely. Fluoxetine prolongs the QT interval; the prescribing information for
fluoxetine recommends avoiding concurrent use of other drugs that may prolong
the QT interval; risk may be increased with higher doses and/or when associated
with hypokalemia; drugs that prolong the QTc interval may potentiate the effects of
beta2 agonists on the cardiovascular system

tetrabenazine
fluoxetine increases effects of tetrabenazine by affecting hepatic enzyme CYP2D6
metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Decrease tetrabenazine dose by 50% when
coadministered with strong CYP2D6 inhibitors.

thiothixene
thiothixene and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely.

tinidazole
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of tinidazole by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

tolfenamic acid
fluoxetine, tolfenamic acid. Either increases toxicity of the other by
pharmacodynamic synergism. Use Caution/Monitor. Increased risk of upper GI
bleeding. SSRIs inhib. serotonin uptake by platelets.

tolmetin

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prozac-fluoxetine-342955 47/61



6/22/26, 4:21 PM Prozac (fluoxetine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

fluoxetine, tolmetin. Either increases toxicity of the other by pharmacodynamic
synergism. Use Caution/Monitor. Increased risk of upper GI bleeding. SSRIs inhib.
serotonin uptake by platelets.

toremifene
toremifene and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely.

tramadol
fluoxetine and tramadol both increase serotonin levels. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely.

trazodone
trazodone and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely.

triclabendazole
triclabendazole and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.

trifluoperazine
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of trifluoperazine by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2D6 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

trifluoperazine and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely.

trimethoprim
fluoxetine and trimethoprim both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.

trimipramine
trimipramine and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely.

tropisetron
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of tropisetron by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2D6 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

fluoxetine and tropisetron both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.

umeclidinium bromide/vilanterol inhaled
fluoxetine and umeclidinium bromide/vilanterol inhaled both increase QTc interval.
Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Fluoxetine prolongs the QT interval; the
prescribing information for fluoxetine recommends avoiding concurrent use of other
drugs that may prolong the QT interval; risk may be increased with higher doses
and/or when associated with hypokalemia; drugs that prolong the QTc interval may
potentiate the effects of beta2 agonists on the cardiovascular system

valbenazine
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of valbenazine by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2D6 metabolism. Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Consider reducing
valbenazine dose based on tolerability if coadministered with a strong CYP2D6
inhibitor.

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prozac-fluoxetine-342955 48/61



6/22/26, 4:21 PM Prozac (fluoxetine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

valbenazine and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.

valerian
valerian and fluoxetine both increase sedation. Use Caution/Monitor.

vanzacaftor/tezacaftor/deutivacaftor
vanzacaftor/tezacaftor/deutivacaftor increases levels of fluoxetine by affecting
hepatic enzyme CYP2C9/10 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Deutivacaftor
inhibits CYP2C9 in vitro. Caution advised if coadministered with CYP2C9
substrates.

vardenafil
vardenafil and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely.

venlafaxine
fluoxetine and venlafaxine both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.

vilanterol/fluticasone furoate inhaled
fluoxetine and vilanterol/fluticasone furoate inhaled both increase QTc interval.
Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Fluoxetine prolongs the QT interval; the
prescribing information for fluoxetine recommends avoiding concurrent use of other
drugs that may prolong the QT interval; risk may be increased with higher doses
and/or when associated with hypokalemia; drugs that prolong the QTc interval may
potentiate the effects of beta2 agonists on the cardiovascular system

viloxazine
viloxazine will increase the level or effect of fluoxetine by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2D6 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor. Viloxazine (a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor)
may increase systemic exposure of CYP2D6 substrates. Monitor and adjust dose of
substrate as clinically indicated.

voclosporin
voclosporin, fluoxetine. Either increases effects of the other by QTc interval. Use
Caution/Monitor.

vorapaxar
fluoxetine, vorapaxar. Either increases effects of the other by pharmacodynamic
synergism. Use Caution/Monitor. Additive antiplatelet effect may occur; SSRIs and
SNRIs may cause platelet serotonin depletion .

voriconazole
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of voriconazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C9/10 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

fluoxetine and voriconazole both increase QTc interval. Use Caution/Monitor.

vorinostat
vorinostat and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely.

warfarin

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prozac-fluoxetine-342955 49/61



6/22/26, 4:21 PM Prozac (fluoxetine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

fluoxetine, warfarin. Either increases effects of the other by pharmacodynamic
synergism. Use Caution/Monitor. Serotonin release by platelets plays an important
role in hemostasis. SSRIs and SNRIs may increase anticoagulation effect of
warfarin. .

xanomeline/trospium
fluoxetine increases levels of xanomeline/trospium by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2D6 metabolism. Use Caution/Monitor.

zanubrutinib
fluoxetine, zanubrutinib. Either increases effects of the other by anticoagulation.
Modify Therapy/Monitor Closely. Zanubrutinib-induced cytopenias increases risk of
hemorrhage. Coadministration of zanubritinib with antiplatelets or anticoagulants
may further increase this risk.

ziprasidone
fluoxetine and ziprasidone both increase QTc interval. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely.

zolmitriptan
zolmitriptan and fluoxetine both increase serotonin levels. Modify Therapy/Monitor
Closely.

zotepine
fluoxetine increases levels of zotepine by decreasing metabolism. Use
Caution/Monitor.

Minor (42)

almotriptan
fluoxetine, almotriptan. Mechanism: unknown. Minor/Significance Unknown. Risk of
weakness, dyspnea, chest pain.

azithromycin
azithromycin and fluoxetine both increase QTc interval. Minor/Significance
Unknown.

bumetanide
bumetanide, fluoxetine. Mechanism: pharmacodynamic synergism.
Minor/Significance Unknown. Possible additive hyponatremia.

bumetanide intranasal
bumetanide intranasal, fluoxetine. Mechanism: pharmacodynamic synergism.
Minor/Significance Unknown. Possible additive hyponatremia.

celandine
celandine decreases effects of fluoxetine by pharmacodynamic antagonism.
Minor/Significance Unknown. Based on animal studies.

chloroquine
chloroquine will increase the level or effect of fluoxetine by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2D6 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prozac-fluoxetine-342955 50/61



6/22/26, 4:21 PM Prozac (fluoxetine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

chloroquine increases toxicity of fluoxetine by QTc interval. Minor/Significance
Unknown.

codeine
fluoxetine decreases effects of codeine by decreasing metabolism.
Minor/Significance Unknown. Decreased conversion of codeine to active metabolite
morphine.

darifenacin
darifenacin will increase the level or effect of fluoxetine by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2D6 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.

dexmethylphenidate
dexmethylphenidate increases effects of fluoxetine by decreasing metabolism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

diphenhydramine
diphenhydramine will increase the level or effect of fluoxetine by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2D6 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.

dronedarone
dronedarone will increase the level or effect of fluoxetine by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2D6 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.

duloxetine
duloxetine will increase the level or effect of fluoxetine by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2D6 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.

eletriptan
fluoxetine, eletriptan. Mechanism: unknown. Minor/Significance Unknown. Risk of
weakness, dyspnea, chest pain.

esomeprazole
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of esomeprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.

ethacrynic acid
ethacrynic acid, fluoxetine. Mechanism: pharmacodynamic synergism.
Minor/Significance Unknown. Possible additive hyponatremia.

frovatriptan
fluoxetine, frovatriptan. Mechanism: unknown. Minor/Significance Unknown. Risk of
weakness, dyspnea, chest pain.

furosemide
furosemide, fluoxetine. Mechanism: pharmacodynamic synergism.
Minor/Significance Unknown. Possible additive hyponatremia.

lansoprazole
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of lansoprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prozac-fluoxetine-342955 51/61



6/22/26, 4:21 PM Prozac (fluoxetine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

lithium
fluoxetine, lithium. Mechanism: unknown. Minor/Significance Unknown. Risk of
neurotoxicity.

losartan
fluoxetine decreases effects of losartan by decreasing metabolism.
Minor/Significance Unknown. May inhibit the conversion of losartan to its active
metabolite E-3174. Importance of interaction not established; monitor individual
therapeutic response to determine losartan dosage.

maraviroc
maraviroc will increase the level or effect of fluoxetine by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2D6 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.

marijuana
marijuana will increase the level or effect of fluoxetine by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2D6 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.

naratriptan
fluoxetine, naratriptan. Mechanism: unknown. Minor/Significance Unknown. Risk of
weakness, dyspnea, chest pain.

nilotinib
nilotinib will increase the level or effect of fluoxetine by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2D6 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.

omeprazole
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of omeprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C9/10 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.

panax ginseng
panax ginseng increases effects of fluoxetine by pharmacodynamic synergism.
Minor/Significance Unknown.

parecoxib
parecoxib will increase the level or effect of fluoxetine by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2D6 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.

pazopanib
fluoxetine and pazopanib both increase QTc interval. Minor/Significance Unknown.

pleurisy root
pleurisy root decreases effects of fluoxetine by unspecified interaction mechanism.
Minor/Significance Unknown. Theoretical interaction.

quinacrine
quinacrine will increase the level or effect of fluoxetine by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2D6 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.

rabeprazole
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of rabeprazole by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2C19 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prozac-fluoxetine-342955 52/61



6/22/26, 4:21 PM Prozac (fluoxetine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

ranolazine
ranolazine will increase the level or effect of fluoxetine by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2D6 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.

ritonavir
ritonavir will increase the level or effect of fluoxetine by affecting hepatic enzyme
CYP2D6 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.

rizatriptan
fluoxetine, rizatriptan. Mechanism: unknown. Minor/Significance Unknown. Risk of
weakness, dyspnea, chest pain.

ruxolitinib
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of ruxolitinib by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.

ruxolitinib topical
fluoxetine will increase the level or effect of ruxolitinib topical by affecting
hepatic/intestinal enzyme CYP3A4 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.

serdexmethylphenidate/dexmethylphenidate
serdexmethylphenidate/dexmethylphenidate increases effects of fluoxetine by
decreasing metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.

sumatriptan
fluoxetine, sumatriptan. Mechanism: unknown. Minor/Significance Unknown. Risk of
weakness, dyspnea, chest pain.

sumatriptan intranasal
fluoxetine, sumatriptan intranasal. Mechanism: unknown. Minor/Significance
Unknown. Risk of weakness, dyspnea, chest pain.

torsemide
torsemide, fluoxetine. Mechanism: pharmacodynamic synergism. Minor/Significance
Unknown. Possible additive hyponatremia.

venlafaxine
venlafaxine will increase the level or effect of fluoxetine by affecting hepatic
enzyme CYP2D6 metabolism. Minor/Significance Unknown.

zolmitriptan
fluoxetine, zolmitriptan. Mechanism: unknown. Minor/Significance Unknown. Risk of
weakness, dyspnea, chest pain.

Adverse Effects

>10%

Insomnia (10-33%)

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prozac-fluoxetine-342955 53/61



6/22/26, 4:21 PM Prozac (fluoxetine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Nausea (12-29%)

Headache (20-25%)

Weakness (7-21%)

Diarrhea (8-18%)

Somnolence (5-17%)

Anorexia (4-17%)

Asthenia (10-15%)

Anxiety (6-15%)

Nervousness (8-14%)

Tremor (3-13%)

1-10%

Dry mouth (6-10%)

Dyspepsia (6-10%)

Chills (1-10%)

Flu syndrome (1-10%)

Palpitation (1-10%)

Dizziness (9%)

Sweating (2-8%)

Impotence (2-7%)

Rash (4-6%)

Constipation (5%)

Abnormal dreams (1-5%)

Decreased libido (1-5%)

Flatulence (3%)

Vomiting (3%)

Abnormal vision (2%)

Fever (2%)

Urinary frequency (2%)

Frequency Not Defined

Dysglycemia in patients with DM

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prozac-fluoxetine-342955 54/61



6/22/26, 4:21 PM Prozac (fluoxetine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Risk of seizure with concomitant electroconvulsive therapy (rare)

Hypertension

Postmarketing Reports

Galactorrhea

Anosmia, hyposmia

Warnings

Black Box Warnings

In short-term studies, antidepressants increased the risk of suicidal thinking and
behavior in children, adolescents, and young adults (<24 years) taking antidepressants
for major depressive disorders and other psychiatric illnesses

This increase was not seen in patients >24 years; a slight decrease in suicidal thinking
was seen in adults >65 years

In children and young adults, the risks must be weighed against the benefits of taking
antidepressants

Patients should be monitored closely for changes in behavior, clinical worsening, and
suicidal tendencies; this should be done during the initial 1-2 months of therapy and
dosage adjustments

The patient’s family should communicate any abrupt changes in behavior to the health-
care provider

Worsening behavior and suicidal tendencies that are not part of the presenting
symptoms may require discontinuation of therapy

Not FDA approved for treatment of bipolar depression or children < 7 years

Contraindications

Hypersensitivity

Concomitant pimozide or thioridazine (within 5 weeks of administering fluoxetine)

Breastfeeding

Coadministration with MAOIs

Coadministration may cause serotonin syndrome

Coadministration of MAOIs with fluoxetine or within 5 weeks of discontinuing
fluoxetine

Initiating fluoxetine within 14 days of administering an MAOI

Starting fluoxetine in a patient who is being treated with linezolid or IV methylene
blue is contraindicated because of an increased risk of serotonin syndrome

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prozac-fluoxetine-342955 55/61



6/22/26, 4:21 PM Prozac (fluoxetine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

If linezolid or IV methylene blue must be administered, discontinue fluoxetine
immediately and monitor for CNS toxicity; may resume fluoxetine 24 hr after last
linezolid or methylene blue dose or after 5 weeks of monitoring, whichever comes
first

Cautions

Clinical worsening and suicidal ideation may occur despite medication in adolescents
and young adults (aged 18-24 years)

Risk of bleeding (GI and other) when used in combination with NSAIDs, aspirin, or drugs
affecting coagulation; may impair platelet aggregation

Activation of mania/hypomania (screen for bipolar disorder)

Fluoxetine therapy has been associated with occurrence of rash and allergic reaction,
including vasculitis; discontinue if they occur

Bone fractures have been associated with antidepressant therapy; consider possibility of
bone fracture when patient presents with bone pain

May cause or exacerbate sexual dysfunction

Use caution in patients with risk for QT prolongation, including congenital long QT
syndrome, history of prolonged QT, or history of prolonged QT; QT prolongation and
ventricular arrhythmia, including torsade de pointes

Hyponatremia reported with use; consider discontinuation if symptomatic hyponatremia
occurs

Use caution in patients with history of seizure disorders

May prolong QT interval and cause ventricular arrhythmia, including torsade de pointes

May cause nervousness, anxiety, insomnia, or anorexia

Risk of mydriasis; may trigger angle closure attack in patients with angle closure
glaucoma with anatomical narrow angles without a patent iridectomy

Hypoglycemia reported; may alter glycemic control in patients with diabetes

Conflicting evidence reported regarding use of SSRIs during pregnancy and increased
risk of persistent pulmonary hypertension of the newborn, or PPHN (see Pregnancy)

Risk of complications in neonates exposed to SNRIs/SSRIs late in third trimester (eg,
feeding difficulties, irritability, and respiratory problems)

Wait 1 week after discontinuation of Prozac before starting Prozac Weekly

Gradually decrease dose when discontinuing

Has long half-life, decrease in dose will not be fully reflected in plasma for several
weeks

Conditions that predispose to QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmia; such
conditions include concomitant use of drugs that prolong the QT interval; hypokalemia or

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prozac-fluoxetine-342955 56/61



6/22/26, 4:21 PM Prozac (fluoxetine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

hypomagnesemia; recent myocardial infarction, uncompensated heart failure,
bradyarrhythmias, and other significant arrhythmias

Consider ECG assessment and periodic ECG monitoring if initiating treatment with
fluoxetine in patients with risk factors for QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmia;
consider discontinuing fluoxetine and obtaining a cardiac evaluation if patients develop
signs or symptoms consistent with ventricular arrhythmia

Serotonin syndrome

Development of potentially life-threatening serotonin syndrome reported with SNRIs
and SSRIs alone but particularly with concomitant use of other serotonergic drugs
(including triptans, tricyclic antidepressants, fentanyl, lithium, tramadol, tryptophan,
buspirone, amphetamines, meperidine, methadone, and St. Johns Wart); serotonin
syndrome can also occur when these drugs are used alone

If concomitant use with these types of drugs is clinically warranted, inform patients of
potential increased risk for serotonin syndrome, particularly during treatment initiation
and dose increases (see Contraindications and Drug Interactions)

Sexual dysfunction

Use may cause symptoms of sexual dysfunction in both male and female patients;
inform patients that they should discuss any changes in sexual function and
potential management strategies with their healthcare provider

Use of SSRIs, may cause symptoms of sexual dysfunction; in male patients, SSRI
use may result in ejaculatory delay or failure, decreased libido, and erectile
dysfunction

In female patients, SSRI/SNRI use may result in decreased libido and delayed or
absent orgasm

Important for prescribers to inquire about sexual function prior to initiation of
therapy and to inquire specifically about changes in sexual function during
treatment because sexual function may not be spontaneously reported

When evaluating changes in sexual function, obtaining a detailed history (including
timing of symptom onset) is important because sexual symptoms may have other
causes, including underlying psychiatric disorder

Discuss potential management strategies to support patients in making informed
decisions about treatment

Pregnancy & Lactation

Pregnancy

A pregnancy exposure registry monitors pregnancy outcome in women exposed to
antidepressants during pregnancy; healthcare providers are encouraged to register
patients by calling the National Pregnancy Registry for Antidepressants at 1-844-405-
6185 or visiting online at https://womensmentalhealth.org/clinical-and-research-
programs/pregnancyregistry/antidepressants/

Available data from published epidemiologic studies and postmarketing reports over
several decades have not established an increased risk of major birth defects or

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prozac-fluoxetine-342955 57/61



6/22/26, 4:21 PM Prozac (fluoxetine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

miscarriage; some studies have reported an increased incidence of cardiovascular
malformations; however, these studies results do not establish a causal relationship

There are risks associated with untreated depression in pregnancy and risks of persistent
pulmonary hypertension of the newborn (PPHN) and poor neonatal adaptation with
exposure to selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), during pregnancy

Women who discontinue antidepressants during pregnancy are more likely to experience
a relapse of major depression than women who continue antidepressants; this finding is
from a prospective, longitudinal study that followed 201 pregnant women with a history
of major depressive disorder who were euthymic and taking antidepressants at
beginning of pregnancy

Consider the risk of untreated depression when discontinuing or changing treatment
with antidepressant medication during pregnancy and postpartum.

Neonates exposed to drug and other SSRI or SNRIs late in the third trimester have
developed complications requiring prolonged hospitalization, respiratory support, and
tube feeding; such complications can arise immediately upon delivery; reported clinical
findings have included respiratory distress, cyanosis, apnea, seizures, temperature
instability, feeding difficulty, vomiting, hypoglycemia, hypotonia, hypertonia,
hyperreflexia, tremors, jitteriness, irritability, and constant crying

These findings are consistent with either a direct toxic effect of SSRIs and SNRIs or
possibly a drug discontinuation syndrome; it should be noted that, in some cases, the
clinical picture is consistent with serotonin syndrome

Exposure to SSRIs, particularly in month before delivery, associated with <2-fold
increase in risk of postpartum hemorrhage; bleeding events related to drugs that
interfere with serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis, hematoma, epistaxis,
and petechiae to life-threatening hemorrhages

Use in the month before delivery may be associated with an increased risk of postpartum
hemorrhage

Animal data

In rats and rabbits treated with fluoxetine during the period of organogenesis, there
was no evidence of developmental effects at doses up to 1.6 and 3.9 times,
respectively, the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) of 60 mg/day given
to adolescents on a mg/m2 basis

However, in other reproductive studies in rats, an increase in stillborn pups, a
decrease in pup weight, and an increase in pup deaths early after birth occurred at
doses that are 1.5 times (during gestation) and 0.97 time (during gestation and
lactation) the MRHD given to adolescents on a mg/m2 basis

A study of nearly 28,000 women taking SSRIs confirmed 2 previously reported
birth defects associated with fluoxetine - heart wall defects and craniosynostosis

Persistent pulmonary hypertension of the newborn

Potential risk of PPHN when used during pregnancy

Initial public health advisory, in 2006, was based on a single published study; since
then, there have been conflicting findings from new studies, making it unclear
whether the use of SSRIs during pregnancy can cause PPHN

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prozac-fluoxetine-342955 58/61



6/22/26, 4:21 PM Prozac (fluoxetine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

The FDA has reviewed the new study results and has concluded that, given the
conflicting results from different studies, it is premature to reach any conclusion
about a possible link between SSRI use in pregnancy and PPHN

FDA recommendation: The FDA advises health-care professionals not to alter their
current clinical practice of treating depression during pregnancy and to report any
adverse events to the FDA MedWatch program

A meta-analysis of 7 observational studies, found exposure to SSRIs in late
pregnancy (ie, >20 weeks' gestation) more than doubled the risk of PPHN that
could not be explained by other etiologies (eg, congenital malformations, meconium
aspiration) (BMJ 2014;348:f6932)

Lactation

Data from published literature report the presence of fluoxetine and norfluoxetine in
human milk; there are reports of agitation, irritability, poor feeding, and poor weight gain
in infants exposed to fluoxetine through breast milk

There are no data on effect of fluoxetine or its metabolites on milk production;
developmental and health benefits of breastfeeding should be considered along with
mother’s clinical need for therapy and any potential adverse effects on breastfed child
from drug or underlying maternal condition

Infants exposed to drug should be monitored for agitation, irritability, poor feeding, and
poor weight

Pregnancy Categories

A: Generally acceptable. Controlled studies in pregnant women show no evidence of
fetal risk.

B: May be acceptable. Either animal studies show no risk but human studies not available
or animal studies showed minor risks and human studies done and showed no risk.

C: Use with caution if benefits outweigh risks. Animal studies show risk and human
studies not available or neither animal nor human studies done.

D: Use in LIFE-THREATENING emergencies when no safer drug available. Positive
evidence of human fetal risk.

X: Do not use in pregnancy. Risks involved outweigh potential benefits. Safer alternatives
exist.

NA: Information not available.

Pharmacology

Mechanism of Action

Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor; little or no affinity for alpha-adrenergic histamine
or cholinergic receptor

Absorption

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prozac-fluoxetine-342955 59/61



6/22/26, 4:21 PM Prozac (fluoxetine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Peak plasma time: 6-8 hr

Peak plasma concentration: 15-55 ng/mL

Steady-state plasma concentration: 91-302 ng/mL (parent drug), 72-258 ng/mL
(metabolite)

Time to peak: 6-8 hr (serum)

Distribution

Protein bound: 95%

Vd: 12-43 L/kg

Metabolism

Hepatic P450 enzyme CYP2D6 substrate

Enzymes induced: CYP2C9

Enzymes inhibited: CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP3A4

Metabolites: Norfluoxetine

Elimination

Half-life: 4-6 days (chronic administration); 1-3 days (acute); 7-6 days (cirrhosis)

Dialyzable: No

Excretion: Urine (15%)

Pharmacogenomics

Several SSRIs (eg, fluoxetine, fluvoxamine, paroxetine, sertraline) are metabolized by
CYP2D6

CYP2D6 is involved in the metabolism of approximately 20% of drugs in clinical use and
displays large individual-to-individual variability in activity due to genetic
polymorphisms

More than 80 CYP2D6 variant alleles have been identified; however, 4 of the most
prevalent alleles, CYP2D6*3, *4, *5, and *6, account for 93-97% of CYP2D6 poor
metabolizers (PMs)

CYP2D6*4, the most common variant (~25% frequency in whites), causes a splicing
defect, CYP2D6*3 (2.7% frequency) causes a frameshift mutation, and CYP3D6*5
(2.6%) is an entire deletion of the CYP2D6 gene; individuals homozygous for these
alleles have no CYP2D6 activity

The impact of CYP2D6 activity is further complicated by some SSRIs (eg, fluoxetine,
fluvoxamine, paroxetine, sertraline) that, in addition to being substrates for CYP2D6, are
also known to moderately inhibit CYP2D6 activity

Genetic testing laboratories

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prozac-fluoxetine-342955 60/61



6/22/26, 4:21 PM Prozac (fluoxetine) dosing, indications, interactions, adverse effects, and more

Genotyping tests for CYP2D6 variants are commercially available through the
following companies

Applied Biosystems (https://www.appliedbiosystems.com/)

GenPath Diagnostics (https://www.genpathdiagnostics.com/)

Formulary

Adding plans allows you to compare formulary status to other drugs in the same class.

Formulary information is available for health plans only in the United States.

Medscape prescription drug monographs are based on FDA-approved labeling information, unless otherwise noted,
combined with additional data derived from primary medical literature.

https://reference.medscape.com/drug/prozac-fluoxetine-342955 61/61